Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability, Networks And Knowledge Management: Strategic Decisions At Multinational Insurance Companies In Asia, Australia And New Zealand.

29 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2017 Last revised: 7 Nov 2022

Michael C. I. Nwogugu

Independent

Date Written: 2016 (Revised 2022)

Abstract

Many multinational insurance companies in Asia, New Zealand and Australia have had to adapt to challenges posed by insurtech, pollution and Climate Change, Trade Conflicts, changing consumer behavior and financial markets in their regions. This article analyzes these issues by focusing on the operations of Insurance Australia Group (IAG) during 2013-2019 – IAG insured properties and economic activity that generated substantial pollution and Climate Change, and IAG owned substantial equity-stakes in insurance companies in India, China, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam. This article: i) explains some of the corporate governance and financial stability problems and sub-optimal decision-making at IAG (IAG seemed to have intentionally engaged in asset quality management and earnings management which were intertwined with its overall strategy) – and many of IAG’s Corporate Governance, regulatory and operational problems also existed at other large insurance companies in Asia, Australia and New Zealand.; ii) discusses how insurtech has evolved and some of its effects and limitations; iii) explains IAG’s sustainability problems (environmental, economic and social sustainability); iv) explains some research-practice gaps in asset pricing and analysis of Structural Change and Financial Stability. Interestingly, despite all of IAG’s problems, Berkshire Hathaway invested in $500 million in a partnership with IAG in June 2015 (for which it got a 3.7 percent stake in IAG) with the objective of reducing IAG's capital requirements.

Keywords: Environmental/Climate Finance & Sustainability; IMF; WTO; Emerging Markets; Financial Stability; Systemic Risk; Operations Strategy; Structural Changes; Reorganization; Networks.

Suggested Citation:

Nwogugu, Michael C. I., Sustainability, Networks And Knowledge Management: Strategic Decisions At Multinational Insurance Companies In Asia, Australia And New Zealand. (2016 (Revised 2022)). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2980133 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2980133
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
Noussair, Trautmann & Kuilen (2013) and other articles have analyzed a few higher-order risk preferences. vi) Corporate Governance Statutes And Corporations' Strategies/Mechanisms/Alliances As Non-Public Goods (that may be created, diminished or amplified by Political Influence And Lobbying) -the "usevalue" and potency of Corporate Governance statutes ad mechanisms seem to, or can decline as more persons/companies use such statutes and mechanisms; and or when there is increasing complexity of the Strategy-spaces of many of the users of such statute/mechanism. Thus, Corporate Governance statutes (such as SOX) and mechanisms are or can be Non-Public Goods. Similarly, the legality and potency of the announced or un-announced strategies or "mechanisms" or Strategic Alliances of large/medium companies (or groups of similar small companies) can decline as more persons/companies are subjected/exposed to such strategies, alliances and or mechanisms; and or when there is increasing complexity of the Strategyspaces of many of such companys' customers and or suppliers. Thus, the strategies, mechanisms, Strategic Alliances and internal Corporate Governance principles of large multinational companies (or groups of similar small/medium companies) are or can be Non-Public Goods. ix) Strategy Permeation Deficits -the formulation and or execution of strategy from the BOD to the senior executives to middle managers is distorted or interrupted by any of the following: 1) human biases; 2) knowledge deficits; 3) internal communication deficits; 4) internal controls; 5) internal or external collusion (intentional or un-intentional); 6) criminal misconduct; 7) external pressures (such as meeting analysts' EPS estimates or shareholders' demand for greater dividends); 8) difficulties in either assessing the markets' technology needs and or in incorporating strategy into innovation processes and development of technology; 9) economic and psychological costs of innovation, strategy development and implementation; 10) impact of innovation and strategy development on managers' compensation and career progress. xi) Deadweight Losses in the trading of securities of securities of the company (and perhaps the securities of other companies in the same industry sector). xii) There are adverse effects of Managerial Entrenchment; BOD Entrenchment; and Quasi-managerial Entrenchment (managers' philosophies and methods are entrenched by BOD reliance, long term transactions
Financial Stability, Business Policy and Strategy problems were evidence of the following: i) Intra/Inter jurisdictional Coordination-Gaps in enforcement of laws/statutes, which often increases enforcement and monitoring costs. ii) Posted: 2014
Insurtech" is used broadly to include fintech ranging from those developed, licensed or used by regular insurers in their operations (Insurtech 1.0) to more recent and new mobile applications developed by startups and small companies (Insurtech 2.0) -the key similarity is that all are add-ons to old legacy IT systems that are often ineffficent. IAG's operations have been affected by its implementation of insurtech 18
IAG announced that it will build an insurtech hub in Singapore, to be named Firemark Labs, which will act as an incubator for IAG and help collaboration across Australia, New Zealand and Asia Posted: 2017-01
Mckenzie Baker
Evolution & Revolution: Implications for tech transformation in the Asian insurance industry -A look at insurance technology trends in Asia
Insurtech Futures Blog: The evolution of insurance software , volume 5 Posted: 2016-02-15
IAG to launch InsurTech hub in Singapore Posted: 2017-01-23
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
478
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,232
RANK
136,892
3 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies