Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrated Reporting and EU Law. Competing, Converging or Complementary Regulatory Frameworks?

University of Oslo Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2017-23

20 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2017

David Monciardini

University of Milan

John Dumay

Macquarie University; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Lucia Biondi

University of Rome III, Department of Law, Students

Date Written: June 6, 2017

Abstract

The paper focuses on the relation between a major global voluntary private regulatory initiative, the Integrated Reporting Framework (IR), created by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), and the legally binding norms recently adopted by the European Union on corporate non-financial reporting. Despite growing interest in IR, its complex relation with parallel legal initiatives has not been systematically addressed. The paper aims to fill this gap in the literature. It critically analyses and juxtaposes the two regulatory initiatives, claiming that they have been in a constant ‘hidden dialogue’ since the very beginning. While the IIRC tends to underline continuity, the two frameworks try to answer the same question starting from very distant underlying assumptions. As of today, their impact on corporate governance, the environment and broader society would be markedly different. However, the actions of politician needing to be seen to be doing something in the public interest and of powerful business interest channelled through the accounting profession (Flower, 2015) might lead to greater convergence between the two. The paper concludes that a more open and explicit public debate on the (dis)continuity between the two regulatory initiatives is urgently needed.

Suggested Citation:

Monciardini, David and Dumay, John and Biondi, Lucia, Integrated Reporting and EU Law. Competing, Converging or Complementary Regulatory Frameworks? (June 6, 2017). University of Oslo Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2017-23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2981674 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2981674
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
472
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,600
RANK
138,996
11 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Oslo Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies