Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Agency Problems of Institutional Investors

Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 31 pp. 89-102 (Summer 2017).

Harvard Law School Olin Discussion Paper No. 930

26 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2017 Last revised: 5 May 2020

Lucian A. Bebchuk

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Alma Cohen

Harvard Law School; Harvard Law School; Tel Aviv University - Eitan Berglas School of Economics; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Scott Hirst

Boston University - School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: June 1, 2017

Abstract

We analyze how the rise of institutional investors has transformed the governance landscape. While corporate ownership is now concentrated in the hands of institutional investors that can exercise stewardship of those corporations that would be impossible for dispersed shareholders, the investment managers of these institutional investors have agency problems vis-à-vis their own investors. We develop an analytical framework for examining these agency problems and apply it to study several key types of investment managers.

We analyze how the investment managers of mutual funds - both index funds and actively managed funds - have incentives to under-spend on stewardship and to side excessively with managers of corporations. We show that these incentives are especially acute for managers of index funds, and that the rise of such funds has system-wide adverse consequences for corporate governance. Activist hedge funds have substantially better incentives than managers of index funds or active mutual funds, but their activities do not provide a complete solution for the agency problems of institutional investors.

Our analysis provides a framework for future work on institutional investors and their agency problems, and generates insights on a wide range of policy questions. We discuss implications for disclosure by institutional investors; regulation of their fees; stewardship codes; the rise of index investing; proxy advisors; hedge funds; wolf pack activism; and the allocation of power between corporate managers and shareholders.

This paper is part of a larger project on the incentives of investment managers that also includes Index Funds and the Future of Corporate Governance: Theory, Evidence, and Policy and The Specter of the Giant Three.

Presentation slides for this paper are available on SSRN here.


Keywords: institutional investors, investment managers, mutual funds, index funds, hedge fund activism

JEL Classification: G23, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bebchuk, Lucian A. and Cohen, Alma and Hirst, Scott, The Agency Problems of Institutional Investors (June 1, 2017). Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 31 pp. 89-102 (Summer 2017)., Harvard Law School Olin Discussion Paper No. 930, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2982617 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2982617
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Anat R Admati , Paul Pfleiderer
The 'Wall Street Walk' and Shareholder Activism: Exit as a Form of Voice
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 7 , p. 2645 - 85 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Philippe Aghion , John Van Reenen , Luigi Zingales
Innovation and Institutional Ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 1 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Rasha Ashraf , Narayanan Jayaraman
Institutional Investors' Trading Behavior in Mergers and Acquisitions
AFA 2007 Chicago Meetings Paper Pages: 55 Posted: 14 Mar 2006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Harley E Ryan
Do Pension-Related Business Ties Influence Mutual Fund Proxy Voting? Evidence from Shareholder Proposals on Executive Compensation
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 567 - 88 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,006
ABSTRACT VIEWS
22,363
RANK
4,217
109 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies