Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandated Disclosures Under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and IAS 38 Intangible Assets: Value Relevance and Impact on Analysts’ Forecasts

Applied Economics 50, no. 7 (2018): 707-725.

Posted: 7 Jun 2017 Last revised: 31 May 2023

Paul André

University of Bristol Business School

Dionysia Dionysiou

University of Stirling

Ioannis Tsalavoutas

University of Glasgow - Accounting and Finance Group

Date Written: May 1, 2017

Abstract

Drawing on a large sample of European firms, we examine whether variant compliance levels with mandated disclosures under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and IAS 38 Intangible Assets are value relevant and affect analysts’ forecasts. Our results indicate a mean (median) compliance level of about 84% (86%) but high variation among firms; and disclosure levels regarding IAS 36 being much lower than those regarding IAS 38. In depth analysis reveals that non-compliance relates mostly to proprietary information and information that reveals managers’ judgment and expectations. Furthermore, we find a positive (negative) relationship between average disclosure levels and market values (analysts’ forecast dispersion). Results, however, hold more specifically for disclosures related to IAS 36, and these also improve analysts’ forecast accuracy. Our findings add knowledge regarding the economic consequences of mandatory disclosures, have an appeal to regulators and financial statement preparers, and reflect on the IASB’s concerns to increase the guidance and principles on presentation and disclosure.

Keywords: mandatory disclosures, value relevance, analysts’ forecasts, intangibles, impairments, IAS 36, IAS 38

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, G10

Suggested Citation:

Andre, Paul and Dionysiou, Dionysia and Tsalavoutas, Ioannis, Mandated Disclosures Under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and IAS 38 Intangible Assets: Value Relevance and Impact on Analysts’ Forecasts (May 1, 2017). Applied Economics 50, no. 7 (2018): 707-725., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2982297
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,395
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies