Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Choice and Information Asymmetry: Evidence from International Syndicated Loans

Accounting and Business Research (2019): 49 (4), 365-399

58 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2017 Last revised: 26 May 2021

Zhiming Ma

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Derrald Stice

The University of Hong Kong - School of Business; HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Rencheng Wang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 15, 2018

Abstract

Analyzing a large sample of non-U.S. public firms from 31 countries that obtain private loans, we find that loan syndicates that lend to borrowers that employ Big N auditors are larger and less concentrated and that the lead arrangers and largest investors of these syndicates are able to hold a lower proportion of the loan after issuance. Further analysis demonstrates that this effect exists only in countries with strong creditor rights and in those countries with high levels of societal trust, suggesting that both sound formal and informal institutional factors are prerequisites for lenders and borrowers to benefit from differential audit quality on loan syndicate structure efficiency. Furthermore, we find that the loan syndicate structure benefits for borrowers that employ Big N auditors are higher for borrowers with greater information asymmetry problems, but we do not find that Big N audits are able to address the information asymmetry and moral hazard issues between the lenders themselves in the global debt market. Our results are robust to various additional tests that address endogeneity issues.

Keywords: Big N Auditors, International Debt Markets, Loan Syndicate Structure, Creditor Rights, Trust

JEL Classification: G01, M4, M49

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Zhiming and Stice, Derrald and Wang, Rencheng, Auditor Choice and Information Asymmetry: Evidence from International Syndicated Loans (June 15, 2018). Accounting and Business Research (2019): 49 (4), 365-399, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2983010 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2983010
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
494
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,174
RANK
131,571
2 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies