Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Corporate Governance on Firms Financial Performance: A Study of Quoted Banks in Nigeria

Udeh, F.N., Abiahu, M.C., & Tambou, L.E. (2017). Impact of Corporate Governance on Firms Financial Performance: A Study of Quoted Banks in Nigeria. The Nigerian Accountant, (50)2, 54-62

9 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2017

Dr. Francis Udeh

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem Abiahu

CIBN Centre for Financial Studies

Liberty Tambou

Nnamdi Azikiwe University Awka

Date Written: April 30, 2017

Abstract

This study evaluated the Impact of Corporate Governance on Firms Financial Performance in Nigeria Quoted Banks in order to determine the Banks Financial Performance before and after the introduction of Code of Corporate Governance in Nigeria. The main objective of this study is to evaluate Board Composition with a view to determining its impact on Firms Financial Performance. Board Composition was used as measure of Corporate Governance while Return on Capital Employed (ROCE), was used to operationalise Financial Performance. The study is anchored on Shareholders theory. The Population of this study comprised fifteen (15) banks whose shares are quoted on Nigeria Stock Exchange. Judgmental sampling technique was used to select seven (7) banks from the entire Population of the study (which makes up the sample size). Data were obtained from secondary source (published financial statements of the selected quoted banks) covering the periods of 2003–2014. The method of data analysis utilised was Ordinary Least Squares Regression Analysis. A model was formulated. The findings from this study showed that Board composition has a negative, though insignificant impacts on ROCE during the 2003–2008 period (p1) and during the 2009–2014 period (p2). In conclusion, the way in which corporate governance is organised differs among countries, depending on the economic, political and social contexts. We therefore recommend that the directors of board should adhere to CBN regulations and guidelines in bank management, with this, they can achieve their aim and shareholders confidence will be restored, on the board.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Bank Performance, Quoted Firms

JEL Classification: G21, G32, L25, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Udeh, Francis and Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem and Tambou, Liberty, Impact of Corporate Governance on Firms Financial Performance: A Study of Quoted Banks in Nigeria (April 30, 2017). Udeh, F.N., Abiahu, M.C., & Tambou, L.E. (2017). Impact of Corporate Governance on Firms Financial Performance: A Study of Quoted Banks in Nigeria. The Nigerian Accountant, (50)2, 54-62, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2983640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
566
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,962
RANK
111,191
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies