Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consequences of Low-Quality Audits for Engagement Partners: The Importance of Audit Firm Quality Control Systems

46 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2017 Last revised: 28 Jul 2019

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Reining Petacchi

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Date Written: July 24, 2019

Abstract

We investigate the consequences of low-quality audits for engagement partners in the US and the role audit firm quality control systems play in this process. We employ a sample period during which the identity of the engagement partner on specific audits is not publicly known to isolate the effect of quality control systems on partner management. We find that restatements result in partner changes for both restating and non-restating clients. Because the identity of the partner on an audit is not publicly known, non-restating clients may not be fully aware of the restatements associated with their engagement partners. We find that audit firms with ineffective partner quality control systems take advantage of this opaque information environment and do not replace low quality partners, especially if the partners can bring in large audit fees. Even if these audit firms replace the partner, they do not supply a new partner with higher quality. Our results highlight the importance of an effective quality control system in disciplining partners. When audit firm quality control systems fail, enhanced transparency through disclosing the identity of the engagement partner may be necessary in disciplining the auditing labor market.

Suggested Citation:

Aobdia, Daniel and Petacchi, Reining, Consequences of Low-Quality Audits for Engagement Partners: The Importance of Audit Firm Quality Control Systems (July 24, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2983900 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2983900
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Michael R Darby , Edi Karni
Free competition and the optimal amount of fraud
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 88 Posted: 1973
Crossref
Linda Elizabeth Deangelo
Auditor size and audit quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 3 , p. 183 - 199 Posted: 1981
Crossref
Mark L Defond , Jieying Zhang
A review of archival auditing research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , p. 275 - 326 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Desai , Chris E Hemang , Michael Hogan , Wilkins
The reputational penalty for aggressive accounting: Earnings restatements and management turnover
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 112 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,694
RANK
40,027
10 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies