Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How do Firms Respond to Political Uncertainty? Evidence from U.S. Gubernatorial Elections

53 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2017 Last revised: 21 Mar 2023

Andrew Bird

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros College of Business and Economics

Stephen A. Karolyi

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Thomas Ruchti

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: July 6, 2017

Abstract

We examine the joint response to political uncertainty along two margins: changes in real activity and voluntary disclosure. We focus on within-firm variation in exposure to ex ante competitive U.S. gubernatorial elections using data on pre-election poll margins and firms’ state exposures. Despite real activity falling in the years leading up to a close election, we find that voluntary disclosure increases both in frequency and content, including mentions of risk in filings that reference states holding elections. Our tests use a decomposition of 8-K filings into real activity and voluntary disclosure to address the endogenous complementarity between these two responses. These results hold when using alternative ex ante measures of political uncertainty based on term-limited incumbents, historically competitive offices, or state legislature gridlock. Both effects of political uncertainty are stronger for firms in highly regulated industries and weaker for those least exposed to the local market, linking the real activity and disclosure responses to uncertainty.

Keywords: political uncertainty, real activity, voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: D72, G14, G18, G34

Suggested Citation:

Bird, Andrew and Karolyi, Stephen A. and Ruchti, Thomas, How do Firms Respond to Political Uncertainty? Evidence from U.S. Gubernatorial Elections (July 6, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2986678 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2986678
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A Ang , F A Longstaff
Systemic sovereign credit risk: Lessons from the US and Europe
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 60 , issue 5 , p. 493 - 510 Posted: 2013
S Ansolabehere , J M Snyder
Using term limits to estimate incumbency advantages when officeholders retire strategically
Legislative Studies Quarterly , volume 29 , issue 4 , p. 487 - 515 Posted: 2004
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 4 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
K Balakrishnan , M B Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Shaping liquidity: On the causal effects of voluntary disclosure
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 2237 - 2278 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,485
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,568
RANK
29,451
37 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies