Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Continuous Improvement for Business Sustainability & Corporate Governance to Expand Opportunities of International Finance

Posted: 16 Jun 2017 Last revised: 20 Dec 2020

Tamer Aly ElNashar

The American University in Cairo

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

This paper uses Kruskal-Wallis test to analyze responses of a sample of practitioners in the business to a questionnaire, in order to measure and predict whether applying, activating, and continuously improving business sustainability and corporate governance contribute to expanding opportunities of international finance or not. I find based on the descriptive statistics that the most significant indication for the responses is for the response 2 (Agree). Nevertheless, Kruskal-Wallis test shows various variances in the responses to the overall questions in the questionnaire, which in turn, encourages future researches to ensure the impact of this paper’s perspective.

Suggested Citation:

ElNashar, Tamer Aly, The Continuous Improvement for Business Sustainability & Corporate Governance to Expand Opportunities of International Finance (2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2986700
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
939
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies