Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Corporate Ethics and Leadership Paradigm for the Age of Creativity

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 18, No. 2, 2017

52 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2017

Miriam Gerstein

Brooklyn College

Hershey H. Friedman

City University of New York (CUNY) - Koppelman School of Business; CUNY Brooklyn College

Date Written: June 14, 2017

Abstract

We are no longer an industrial economy characterized by assembly lines; we are now in a knowledge economy where creativity is what matters and the old ways of running a firm simply do not work. This paper discusses a new paradigm for corporate ethics and leadership that includes factors that provide long-term value such as employee engagement, building a learning organization, corporate social responsibility, and the reputation of the organization.

Keywords: leadership, employee engagement, creativity, diversity, learning organization, workplace bullying, servant leadership, ethical tone at the top, compassion, conscious capitalism

JEL Classification: L20, L21, L29, M12, M14, M19

Suggested Citation:

Gerstein, Miriam and Friedman, Hershey H., A New Corporate Ethics and Leadership Paradigm for the Age of Creativity (June 14, 2017). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 18, No. 2, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2986603
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
148 References
&amp; Gerstein , Friedman
A New Corporate Ethics and Leadership Paradigm for the Age of Creativity 216
J Bernstein
Free trade is fading. Now what Posted: 2016-03-14
J Bersin
Becoming irresistible: A new model for employee engagement
Deloitte Review Posted: 2015-01-26
Bizshifts
BizShifts-Trends. Toxic personalities in the workplace-bad, even evil… business behavior: bullies, narcissistic, Machiavellian Posted: 2014-07-31
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
520
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,154
RANK
123,612
7 Citations
148 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Cognition & Culture: Culture, Communication, Design, Ethics, Morality, Religion, Rhetoric, & Semiotics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies