Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Fine Feathers Make a Fine Bird? The Influence of Attractiveness on Fraud-Risk Judgments by Internal Auditors

International Journal of Auditing, 22 (2018), 332–344

41 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2017 Last revised: 23 Oct 2018

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Jochen Theis

University of Southern Denmark

Junpeng Lao

University of Fribourg, Department of Psychology

Meike Ramon

University of Fribourg

Date Written: June 17, 2017

Abstract

Independence and objectivity are the chief principles assumed to underlie internal auditors’ fraud-risk judgments. However, a substantial body of evidence regarding attractiveness stereotyping and the attractiveness halo effect suggests that physical attractiveness of potential suspects may influence internal auditors’ fraud-risk judgments according to the proverb “what is beautiful is good”. In this seminal inter-disciplinary experimental study we investigated whether internal auditors are susceptible to such appearance-related biases, or whether they correct for them due to their expertise and motivation as suggested by the process model of appearance-based stereotyping. 193 internal auditors were presented a misappropriation-of-assets scenario, in which the attractiveness of a suspect was manipulated. To determine whether professional expertise is associated with increased resilience to appearance-related biases, their fraud-risk judgments were contrasted with those acquired from 240 control subjects with no auditing experience. In line with our predictions attractiveness modulated naïve subjects’ fraud-risk judgments, whereas internal auditors did not show any indication for appearance-related biases. Our findings demonstrate that internal auditors’ experience and motivation immunize them to the well-documented phenomena of physical attractiveness stereotyping and the attractiveness halo effect – at least when fraud-risk judgments do not involve face-to-face interactions. We propose a two-step procedure to maximize objectivity of internal auditors’ fraud-risk judgments.

Keywords: Internal Audit Function, Internal Auditor, Fraud, Physical Attractiveness Stereotype

JEL Classification: M4, M42,

Suggested Citation:

Eulerich, Marc and Theis, Jochen and Lao, Junpeng and Ramon, Meike, Do Fine Feathers Make a Fine Bird? The Influence of Attractiveness on Fraud-Risk Judgments by Internal Auditors (June 17, 2017). International Journal of Auditing, 22 (2018), 332–344, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2988269 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2988269
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
L J Abbott , Y Park , S Parker
The Effects of Audit Committee Activity and Independence on Corporate Fraud
Managerial Finance , volume 26 , issue 11 , p. 55 - 67 Posted: 2000
Crossref
G Adams
Physical Attractiveness Posted: 1982
T Alley
Social and Applied Aspects of Face Perception: an Introduction
Social and Applied Aspects of Perceiving Faces Posted: 1988
Considerations of Fraud in a Financial Statement
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,031
RANK
349,044
1 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies