Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Compliance, Governance Structures, and Firm Performance

20 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2017

Amitava Roy

St. XAVIER'S COLLEGE (AUTONOMOUS), KOLKATA

Ananda Mohan Pal

University of Calcutta

Date Written: June 16, 2017

Abstract

The paper deals with the issue whether the adoption of CG practices is associated with the firm ownership and capital structure. The authors have developed a relative disclosure CG Index using twenty parameters emanating from published annual reports. The beneficial influence of CG compliance was found independent of firm ownership structure. The extent of debt in the capital structure of the firm was found to influence CG. PSUs were a significant force in the emerging CG regime. Results indicate that greater CG compliance is significantly associated with firm’s market capitalisation. Firm operating performance (measured by ROA) has a positive association with CG and there also exists an association between ROA, ownership structure variables and debt equity ratio.

Keywords: Agency theory, corporate governance, firm performance

JEL Classification: G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Roy, Amitava and Roy, Amitava and Pal, Ananda Mohan, Corporate Governance Compliance, Governance Structures, and Firm Performance (June 16, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2988073 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2988073
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Lucian A Bebchuk , Assaf Hamdani
The Elusive Quest for Global Governance Standards
University of Pennsylvania Law Review , volume 157 , p. 1263 - 1317 Posted: 2009
M Bertrand , P Mehta , S Mullianathan
Ferreting Out Tunnelling : An Application to Indian Business Groups
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 121 - 148 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Sanjai Bhagat , Bernard S. Black
The Non-Correlation between Board Independence and Long-Term Firm Performance
Stanford Law and Economics Olin Working Paper No. 185 Pages: 44 Posted: 3 Oct 1998
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bhagat , Sanjai , Brian Bolton , Roberta Romano
The Effect of Corporate Governance on Performance, The Effect of Corporate Governance on Performance Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,801
RANK
307,529
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies