Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SEC Comment Letters and Firm Disclosure

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, 2017, Vol. 36(5), 337-357

George Mason University School of Business Research Paper No. 18-6

57 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2017 Last revised: 25 May 2018

Zahn Bozanic

Florida State University

J. Richard Dietrich

Ohio State University

Bret A. Johnson

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Date Written: June 12, 2017

Abstract

In an effort to enhance informational transparency for investors, the SEC periodically reviews public firms’ filings for regulatory compliance. Although the SEC dedicates significant resources to the filing review process, the efficacy of this process is unclear. Upon receipt of a comment letter consequent to the SEC’s review, the firm can either remedy perceived disclosure deficiencies or attempt to avoid making substantive disclosure changes, including by requesting that certain additional information be treated as confidential or by negotiating with the SEC. In this paper, we first examine the nature, extent, and impact of modifications to firms’ disclosures requested by an SEC comment letter. While our initial evidence suggests that firms enhance their disclosure, we find that Rule 406 confidential treatment requests and registrant negotiation have an attenuating effect. Further, consistent with proprietary cost concerns, we show that firms in high tech industries and with greater amounts of R&D are more likely to request confidential treatment. We then examine informational transparency in order to test the SEC’s stated intention of the filing review process. We find that improvements to firms’ disclosures following a comment letter are associated with a decrease in information asymmetry and a reduction in litigation risk. Collectively, our paper contributes to the literature on disclosure regulation by providing evidence that the SEC comment letter process generally enhances firms’ disclosures, improves informational transparency for investors, and mitigates firms’ litigation risk, but that some firms take actions that diminish these enhancements.

Keywords: Corporate Disclosure, Disclosure Regulation, Comment Letters, SEC

JEL Classification: G14, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bozanic, Zahn and Dietrich, J. Richard and Johnson, Bret A., SEC Comment Letters and Firm Disclosure (June 12, 2017). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, 2017, Vol. 36(5), 337-357, George Mason University School of Business Research Paper No. 18-6, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2989164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
D Amiram , E Owens , O Rozenbaum
Do Information Releases Increase or Decrease Information Asymmetry? New Evidence from Analyst Forecast Announcements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 121 - 138 Posted: 2016
Crossref
A Beyer , D A Cohen , T Z Lys , B R Walther
The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Bhushan
Firm Characteristics And Analyst Following
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 11 , p. 255 - 274 Posted: 1989
Crossref
J P Boone , C L Linthicum , A Poe
Characteristics of Accounting Standards and SEC Review Comments
Accounting Horizons , volume 27 , issue 4 , p. 711 - 736 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
543
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,355
RANK
117,482
40 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies