Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Corporate Governance – Performance Puzzle: New Insights

ESADE Business School Research Paper No. 268

61 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2017

Ariadna Dumitrescu

ESADE Business School

Mohammed Zakriya

IÉSEG School of Management; CNRS; Lille Economie Management (LEM) UMR 9221; University of Lille

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 1, 2017

Abstract

This paper provides new insights on governance – performance relationship using recent data (2007 to 2015) on anti-takeover provisions’ incidence in sample firms. We present “nG (new Governance) Index”, an unequal weighted measure of corporate governance that captures the heterogeneity of its individual anti-takeover components, as an alternative to equal weighted G-Index, E-Index and Gov-Score proposed in the related literature. Our findings show that all provisions do not equally influence firms’ corporate governance quality and therefore, our proposed nG-Index traces governance – performance relationship more persistently than an equal-weighted measure. Further analysis reveals that an nG-Index based zero-investment hedge, going long on poor governance portfolio and shorting the good governance one, would have generated an abnormal return of over 1.33% per month or about 16% per year. This hedge is completely opposite to the long good governance – short poor governance strategy suggested in prior literature. We posit that such hedge reversal is an indication that, in recent years, investors underreact to good governance signals and/or seek compensation for high riskiness associated with poorly governed firms.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Anti-Takeover Provisions, Defensive Tactics, G-Index, E-Index

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Dumitrescu, Ariadna and Zakriya, Mohammed, The Corporate Governance – Performance Puzzle: New Insights (May 1, 2017). ESADE Business School Research Paper No. 268, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2989446 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2989446
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
G Allayannis , U Lel , D P Miller
The use of foreign currency derivatives, corporate governance, and firm value around the world
Journal of International Economics , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 79 Posted: 2012
Crossref
E J Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 Posted: 1968
Crossref
P C Andreou , C Antoniou , J Horton , C Louca
Corporate governance and firm-specific stock price crashes
European Financial Management , volume 22 , issue 5 Posted: 2016
Crossref
L Bebchuk , J Coates , G Subramanian
The powerful antitakeover force of staggered boards: Theory, evidence, and policy
Stanford Law Review , volume 54 , issue 5 , p. 887 - 951 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,360
RANK
216,668
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies