Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Changes and CEO Turnover: The Unanticipated Effects of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act

Journal of Banking and Finance, Vol. 41, 2014

41 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2017

Mustafa A Dah

Lebanese American University - Adnan Kassar School of Business

Melissa B. Frye

University of Central Florida - College of Business Administration

Matthew Hurst

Stetson University

Date Written: January 12, 2014

Abstract

The board independence requirements enacted in conjunction with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) provided motivation for firms that were already compliant with the regulations to alter their board structure. We consider actual board changes made by compliant firms and how such changes affect the monitoring efficiency of the boards. We find that the majority of compliant firms (approximately 56%) add independent directors following SOX. However, we find a nontrivial number of firms (approximately 26%) actually decrease the number of independent directors to move closer to the stated 50% requirement. For firms that decrease independence, the CEO turnover performance sensitivity significantly decreases following SOX. We also find that large board independence changes seem to be most detrimental to the monitoring function of the board. Our results highlight that SOX may have had unintended consequences.

Keywords: Boards of directors, CEO turnover, Sarbanes–Oxley Act

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Dah, Mustafa A and Frye, Melissa and Hurst, Matthew, Board Changes and CEO Turnover: The Unanticipated Effects of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (January 12, 2014). Journal of Banking and Finance, Vol. 41, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2989030
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Vladimir Atanasov , Bernard Black
Shock-based causal inference in corporate finance research Posted: 2013
Crossref
Tim Baldenius , Nahum D. Melumad , Xiaojing Meng
Advising and Monitoring CEOs: The Dual Role of Boards
AAA 2011 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper Pages: 49 Posted: 22 Aug 2010
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C T Bathala , R P Rao
The determinants of board composition: an agency theory perspective
Managerial and Decision Economics , volume 16 , p. 59 - 69 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Sanjai Bhagat , Bernard S. Black
The Uncertain Relationship between Board Composition and Firm Performance
As published in Business Lawyer, Vol. 54, pp. 921-963, 1999. Pages: 47 Posted: 17 Oct 1997
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,561
RANK
401,016
11 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies