Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Auditing's Organization and Relationship to other Governance Functions

Corporate Ownership & Control / Volume 16, Issue 4, Summer 2019

16 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2017 Last revised: 13 Jan 2020

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Rainer Lenz

Louvain School of Management (UCL)

Date Written: July 21, 2019

Abstract

This study analyzes the integration of the internal audit function (IAF) into the organizational governance structure of nine different organizations and identifies best practices and organizational differences to improve the overall governance quality from the perspective of IAFs. The results of this qualitative study are based on 26 semi-structured interviews, which were conducted with Chief Auditing Executives and Internal Auditors of six listed companies and three organizations from the public/governmental sector. This study highlights factors to improve the relationship between the IAF and other assurance providers, such as the board of directors, the supervisory board in the two-tier-system, the audit committee, risk management or the external auditor. Based on the results, different common practices regarding potential ways of organizing and integrating the internal audit function into organizational governance are identified. The results contribute to the existing literature through a unique inside-view and extend the prior discussion about the benefits and challenges of internal auditors in different organizational (e.g. Roussy, 2015; Roussy & Perron, 2018). Nevertheless, the typical challenges of qualitative research can be found. All best practices provide an adequate benchmark, and support practitioners as well as scholars to better understand the current best practices of effectively working internal audit function. The study gives additional insights to the growing body of literature about the IAF and uses unique data from practitioners.

Keywords: Internal Audit, Internal Auditing Function, Corporate Governance, Organizational Governance, Best Practices

JEL Classification: M40, M42, G34, G32, M4, G3

Suggested Citation:

Eulerich, Marc and Lenz, Rainer, Internal Auditing's Organization and Relationship to other Governance Functions (July 21, 2019). Corporate Ownership & Control / Volume 16, Issue 4, Summer 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2989589 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2989589
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
L Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Serving two masters: The association between audit committee internal audit oversight and internal audit activities. Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Crossref
U Anderson
Research opportunities in internal auditing, Chapter 4: Assurance and consulting services Posted: 2003
M Arena , G Azzone
Identifying organizational drivers of internal audit effectiveness
International Journal of Auditing , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 60 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Maurizio Rija , Paolo Tenuta
Evidence of internal auditing in Italian listed companies
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 256 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Mohamed A. Hegazy , Marwa Farghaly
External and Internal Auditors Perceptions on Compliance with Internal Audit Standards and Practices: Spirit vs letters?
Corporate Ownership & Control Journal, 18(3), 31-45 (2021) · 15 Pages · Posted: 27 Jun 2022 · Downloads: 158
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
520
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,965
RANK
123,612
2 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies