Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Benefits from IFRS Convergence in China?

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2990919

44 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2017

Chao Chen

Fudan University

Edward Lee

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Jessie Zhu

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 22, 2017

Abstract

We study the ex ante stock market reactions to events leading up to China’s convergence to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The literature consistently shows that the benefits of mandatory IFRS convergence are concentrated in countries with stronger legal enforcement and investor protection. Given that these institutional characteristics are weaker in China relative to more developed Western economies, whether mandating IFRS will benefit the Chinese capital market is an interesting and important, but unanswered question. We find that the Chinese stock market reacts favorably to events leading up to IFRS convergence, and this effect is more pronounced among firms with greater dependence on external capital. This result suggests the market anticipates that such firms will benefit more from IFRS convergence, possibly because of improved financial reporting quality and access to external financing. Additional tests confirm that the value relevance of accounting numbers for these firms is higher following IFRS convergence.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards, Convergence, Market reaction, Value relevance, Capital demand

JEL Classification: G14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Chao and Lee, Edward and Lobo, Gerald J. and Zhu, Jessie, Who Benefits from IFRS Convergence in China? (June 22, 2017). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2990919, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2990919 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2990919
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
Crossref
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C E Bai , D D Li , Z Tao , Y Wang
A multitask theory of state enterprise reform
Journal of Comparative Economics , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 716 - 738 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors. Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
250
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,452
RANK
279,521
2 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies