Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Characteristics and Internal Audit Budget: Malaysian Evidence

Accounting & Management, [S.l.], v. 63, April. 2018. ISSN 2448-8410

31 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2017 Last revised: 28 Apr 2018

Redhwan Al-dhamari

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Almahdi Almagdoub

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Bakr Al-Gamrh

ESC Rennes School of Business

Date Written: June 21, 2016

Abstract

An audit committee is viewed as an essential self-regulatory internal governance instrument that is expected to provide an overseeing role over the entire process of financial reporting. It is also one of the corporate governance cornerstones that is essential for the effective monitoring of the operating performance of internal control. To ensure its effectiveness, the audit committee monitors the resources available to the internal audit, and internal control functions should be directly reported to the audit committee. This study is set out to explore the effect of audit committee characteristics on internal audit budget in Malaysia, where data on internal audit budget is available and how well audit committee monitors the internal audit function is questionable. Our study also opens the door to an unanswered question, that is, whether audit committee effectiveness is related to internal audit budget. Data of 96 companies listed on Bursa Malaysia for a three-year period, 2012-2014, was utilized to achieve this end. The results show that audit committee meeting and index are significantly and positively associated with internal audit budget. They also indicate that audit committee tenure has a significant and negative impact on internal audit budget. The findings of the study support the recent policy initiatives in relation to audit committee and internal audit.

Keywords: Audit Committee Characteristics; Internal Audit Budget; Internal Audit Function; Bursa Malaysia

JEL Classification: M42; M41

Suggested Citation:

Al-dhamari, Redhwan and Almagdoub, Almahdi and Al-Gamrh, Bakr, Audit Committee Characteristics and Internal Audit Budget: Malaysian Evidence (June 21, 2016). Accounting & Management, [S.l.], v. 63, April. 2018. ISSN 2448-8410, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2990592
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Serving two masters: The association between audit committee internal audit oversight and internal audit activities
Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2010
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S N Abdullah
Board composition, audit committee and timeliness of corporate financial reports in Malaysia
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 33 - 45 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Mina Pizzini , Shu Lin , Douglas E. Ziegenfuss
The Impact of Internal Audit Function Quality and Contribution on Audit Delays
52 Pages · Posted: 9 Sep 2010 · Last revised: 8 Oct 2012 · Downloads: 2,870
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,691
RANK
467,197
1 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies