Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tainted Executives as Outside Directors

The Accounting Review, volume 98, issue 7, 2023[10.2308/TAR-2020-0197]

56 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2017 Last revised: 14 Sep 2025

Leah Baer

University of Northern Iowa - Department of Accounting

Yonca Ertimur

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Jingjing Zhang

McGill University - Desautels Faculty of Management

Date Written: January 16, 2023

Abstract

We examine outside board appointments of executives allegedly involved in governance failures—“tainted” executives—to shed light on appointing firms’ underlying motivations. Less attractive firms and those with greater advising needs are more likely to appoint tainted executives to their boards than other firms are. Tainted appointees are less likely to be placed on the nominating and governance committees than non-tainted appointees. Tainted appointees have similar or better skill sets compared to non-tainted appointees. Firms that appoint tainted executives to their boards display an improvement in operating performance in the post-appointment period relative to the pre-appointment period and relative to a matched control sample. We do not find evidence of poor monitoring outcomes for these firms. Overall, our evidence suggests that board needs, not a conspicuous attempt to weaken monitoring, drive the appointment of tainted executives to boards.

Keywords: director appointments, director labor market, securities class action lawsuits, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G34, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Baer, Leah and Ertimur, Yonca and Zhang, Jingjing, Tainted Executives as Outside Directors (January 16, 2023). The Accounting Review, volume 98, issue 7, 2023[10.2308/TAR-2020-0197], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2991803 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2020-0197
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
623
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,451
RANK
98,290
2 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies