Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Developments in Financial Institutions, Governance, Agency Costs, and Misconduct

Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, Forthcoming

26 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2017

Douglas J. Cumming

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Sofia Johan

Florida Atlantic University - Finance; University of Vaasa; Tilburg Law and Economics Center (TILEC)

Rejo Peter

York University - Schulich School of Business

Date Written: June 22, 2017

Abstract

This paper reviews recent literature on financial market institutions, governance, agency costs, and misconduct, and summarizes papers in this special issue. The papers contribute to the misconduct and governance literature in relation to the role of auditors, boards of directors, CEOs, ownership, and financial market regulation. We show Google Scholar and Web of Science trends in the comparative importance of these topics over time in the academic literature. We discuss policy implications and suggestions for future research on governance and financial market misconduct.

Keywords: Misconduct, Fraud, Corporate Governance, Auditors, Directors, CEO Turnover

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G18, K22

Suggested Citation:

Cumming, Douglas J. and Johan, Sofia A. and Peter, Rejo, Developments in Financial Institutions, Governance, Agency Costs, and Misconduct (June 22, 2017). Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2991010
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
G Bernile , J Sulaeman , Q Wang
Institutional trading during a wave of corporate scnadals: 'Perfect Payday'?
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 34 , p. 191 - 209 Posted: 2015
Crossref
W Bessler , F R Kaen , P Kurmann , J Zimmerman
The listing and delisting of German firms on NYSE and NASDAQ: Were there any benefits
Journal of International Financial Markets , volume 22 , p. 1024 - 1053 Posted: 2012
Crossref
U Bhattacharya , H Daouk
The world price of insider trading
Journal of Finance , volume 57 , p. 75 - 108 Posted: 2002
Crossref
U Bhattacharya , C Marshall
Do they do it for the money?
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 18 , p. 92 - 104 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,999
RANK
388,737
4 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies