Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Supply Constraints and Directors’ Reputational Incentives

47 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2017 Last revised: 2 Jul 2021

Chris Armstrong

Stanford Graduate School of Business

John D. Kepler

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Shawn X. Shi

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

David Tsui

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Date Written: July 1, 2021

Abstract

We study the labor market consequences that result from directors’ limited capacity to sit on boards and their resulting incentives stemming from career concerns and future prospects. We find that directors who leave one board are more likely to subsequently join a new board, regardless of the previous firm’s performance. This findings is symptomatic of excess demand for directors’ services and therefore binding constraints on their ability to sit on additional boards. Consistent with many directors facing binding supply constraints, using three arguably exogenous changes in the tightness of directors’ supply constraints, we find that directors with more binding constraints are more likely to substitute board seats as these constraints relax. Collectively, our evidence suggests that many directors face limitations in their ability to join additional boards, potentially diminishing their labor market-based incentives.

Keywords: Board of directors; director incentives; career concerns; director labor market; principal-agent; corporate governance

JEL Classification: G34; J22

Suggested Citation:

Armstrong, Chris S. and Kepler, John and Shi, Shawn and Tsui, David, Supply Constraints and Directors’ Reputational Incentives (July 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2991624 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2991624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
Do directors perform for pay
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 46 , p. 154 - 171 Posted: 2008
Crossref
C Armstrong , I Gow , D Larcker
The efficacy of shareholder voting: Evidence from equity compensation plans
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , p. 909 - 950 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J E Core , W R Guay
Do independent directors cause improvements in firm transparency
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 111 , p. 383 - 403 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Arthaud-Day , T Certo , C Dalton , Dalton , D
A changing of the guard: Executive and director turnover following corporate financial restatements , volume 49 , p. 1119 - 1136 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
639
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,266
RANK
95,173
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies