Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debiasing Earnings Persistence Estimates

Forthcoming Review of Accounting Studies

42 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2017 Last revised: 15 Mar 2023

Brian Rountree

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Shiva Sivaramakrishnan

Rice University

Yanyan Wang

Xiamen University

Lisheng Yu

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) - School of Business

Date Written: March 14, 2023

Abstract

This study provides a theoretical framework to help isolate persistence estimates of earnings innovations from the effects of accounting measurements. We show that estimates of persistence are biased downward when using reported earnings because of the presence of accrual estimation errors. The greater the errors, the greater the downward bias, which explains the empirically observed positive association between accrual quality and estimated earnings persistence. However, when we debias reported earnings persistence as guided by our theoretical framework, we fail to detect any such association and find that the debiased persistence measure better captures fundamental persistence as evidenced by its incremental association with market returns.

Keywords: Accrual quality, persistence, reporting quality, valuation

JEL Classification: D21, D22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Rountree, Brian Robert and Sivaramakrishnan, Shiva and Wang, Yanyan and Yu, Lisheng, Debiasing Earnings Persistence Estimates (March 14, 2023). Forthcoming Review of Accounting Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2991742 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2991742
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
323
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,837
RANK
213,801
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies