Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Risk Administration in Rural Banks in Ghana

79 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2017

Richard Nsiah

Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Ghana; Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Ghana - Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology (KNUST), College of Humanities and Social Sciences

Date Written: June 26, 2017

Abstract

The ability of banks to formulate and adhere to policies and procedures that promote credit quality and curtail non-performing loans is the means to survive in the stiff competition. Inability to create and build up quality loans and credit worthy customers leads to default risk and bankruptcy as well as hampers economic growth of a country.

However, little work is done to search the ways and means that enable to quality loan creation and growth as well as to determine the relationship between the theories, concepts and credit policies both at country or regional level.

For the purpose of the study both primary and secondary data are used. Primary data is collected using semi structured questionnaires. The secondary data is collected from annual reports, directives, and bulletins of the bank. Descriptive statistical tools are used in analyzing the data collected. Hence, the nature of the Study is descriptive.

Finally, based on the findings possible recommendations are given. These include the issues impeding loan growth and rising loan clients complaint on the bank regarding the valuing of properties offered for collateral, lengthy of loan processing, amount of loan processed and approved, loan period, and discretionary limits affecting the performance of credit management.

Suggested Citation:

Nsiah, Richard, Impact of Risk Administration in Rural Banks in Ghana (June 26, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2992824 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2992824
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A Q Aboagye , J Otieku
Are Ghanaian MFIs' Performance Associated with Corporate Governance?
Corporate Governance , volume 10 , p. 307 - 320 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Abor
Managing Foreign Exchange Risk among Ghanaian Firms
Journal of Risk Finance , volume 6 , issue 4 , p. 306 - 318 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P K Addiah
The Effects of Rural Banks' Credit Scheme on Small -Scale food Crop Farming in Ghana: A Case Study Of the Jomoro Rural Bank Posted: 2010
Samuel Agyei , Asiedu
Regulatory Framework of Rural Financial Institutions in Ghana
draft report for Ghana Micro-Finance Institutions Network Posted: 2001-05
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,107
RANK
653,768
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies