Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Compensation: A Survey of Theory and Evidence

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 514/2016

173 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2017 Last revised: 3 Aug 2017

Alex Edmans

London Business School - Institute of Finance and Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Xavier Gabaix

Harvard University - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Dirk Jenter

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Finance; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 17, 2017

Abstract

This paper reviews the theoretical and empirical literature on executive compensation. We start by presenting data on the level of CEO and other top executive pay over time and across firms, the changing composition of pay; and the strength of executive incentives. We compare pay in U.S. public firms to private and non-U.S. firms. We then critically analyze three non-exclusive explanations for what drives executive pay -- shareholder value maximization by boards, rent extraction by executives, and institutional factors such as regulation, taxation, and accounting policy. We confront each hypothesis with the evidence. While shareholder value maximization is consistent with many practices that initially seem inefficient, no single explanation can account for all facts and historical trends; we highlight major gaps for future research. We discuss evidence on the effects of executive pay, highlighting recent identification strategies, and suggest policy implications grounded in theoretical and empirical research. Our survey has two main goals. First, we aim to tightly link the theoretical literature to the empirical evidence, and combine the insights contributed by all three views on the drivers of pay. Second, we aim to provide a user-friendly guide to executive compensation, presenting shareholder value theories using a simple unifying model, and discussing the challenges and methodological issues with empirical research.

Keywords: Executive compensation, contracts, principal-agent problem, rent extraction

JEL Classification: D31, D86, G34, M12

Suggested Citation:

Edmans, Alex and Gabaix, Xavier and Jenter, Dirk, Executive Compensation: A Survey of Theory and Evidence (July 17, 2017). European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 514/2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2992287 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2992287
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
402 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Do …rms understate stock option-based compensation expense disclosed under SFAS 123?
Rev. Account. Stud , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 429 - 461 Posted: 2006
Crossref
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
J. Account. Econ , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J M Abowd , D S Kaplan
Executive compensation: Six questions that need answering
J. Econ. Perspect , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 145 - 168 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Menachem (Meni) Abudy , Dan Amiram , Oded Rozenbaum , Efrat Shust
Do Executive Compensation Contracts Maximize Firm Value? Indications from a Quasi-Natural Experiment
Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 17-69, 28th Annual Conference on Financial Economics and Accounting Pages: 52 Posted: 3 Oct 2017 Last revised: 8 Aug 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,924
ABSTRACT VIEWS
14,173
RANK
4,164
24 Citations
402 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies