Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Critical Evaluation of Action 14 Recommendations and the Suggested Way Forward for Singapore

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Vol. 5, No. 2 Paper No. 2017-S-62: Special Issue: Tax

60 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2017

Luis Coronado

Ernst & Young LLP

Jerome van Staden

Ernst & Young LLP

Date Written: December 1, 2016

Abstract

The final report on Action 14 of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) project, Making Dispute Resolution Mechanisms More Effective presents a commitment by countries to implement certain “minimum standards” on dispute resolution. In many ways, Action 14 is the linchpin to the success of the entire BEPS project. To implement the significant changes developed under the BEPS project and make certain that there is neither unintended double taxation nor double non-taxation, there must be a strong and effective mechanism in place when disputes do (inevitably) arise. While the goal of the BEPS project is to create a more cohesive international tax framework, it would be naïve to assume that governments will suddenly stop having disagreements over how a particular transaction should be taxed or how a treaty provision should be applied. Indeed, we could see more disputes if countries do not implement the BEPS recommendations in their domestic law in a broadly consistent manner. Therefore, it is of utmost importance that the implementation of the suggested BEPS proposals is complemented by a stronger and more efficient dispute resolution mechanism to ensure certainty for businesses. This research paper provides an overview of the existing Mutual Agreement Procedure (MAP) framework in Singapore and other selected Asian countries and the practical experiences around it. It also discusses the gap analysis for these countries (existing framework in these countries vis-a-vis the minimum standards and best practices prescribed under Action 14). The paper then focusses on the ‘mandatory arbitration’ as recommended under Action 14 including an overview of the already existing arbitration systems. This section also seeks to analyse the practical experience of arbitration in other countries and evaluates arbitration as an additional dispute resolution mechanism for Singapore. Finally, we analyse the implications of the multilateral instrument developed as part of Action 15 and the joint audit as an alternative dispute resolution mechanism.

Suggested Citation:

Coronado, Luis and van Staden, Jerome, Critical Evaluation of Action 14 Recommendations and the Suggested Way Forward for Singapore (December 1, 2016). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Vol. 5, No. 2 Paper No. 2017-S-62: Special Issue: Tax, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2993468 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2993468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,795
RANK
328,615
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies