Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Executive Compensation Contracts Maximize Firm Value? Indications from a Quasi-Natural Experiment

Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 17-69

28th Annual Conference on Financial Economics and Accounting

52 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2017 Last revised: 8 Aug 2019

Menachem (Meni) Abudy

Bar-Ilan University - Graduate School of Business Administration

Dan Amiram

Tel Aviv University - Coller School of Management

Oded Rozenbaum

George Washington University - School of Business

Efrat Shust

The Department of Management and Economics, The Open University of Israel

Date Written: August 6, 2019

Abstract

We find significant positive abnormal returns surrounding a surprising and quick enactment of a law that restricts executive pay to a binding upper limit in a few industries. We find that the effect is concentrated only for firms in which the restriction is binding. We also find that the increase in value is greater for firms with weaker corporate governance and smaller for firms that grant a greater portion of equity-based compensation to their executives. These results provide indications that, on average, compensation contracts can be set in a way that does not maximize firm value.

Keywords: executive compensation; governance; optimal contracts

JEL Classification: G30; G38; M12; M48; M52

Suggested Citation:

Abudy, Menachem (Meni) and Amiram, Dan and Rozenbaum, Oded and Shust, Efrat, Do Executive Compensation Contracts Maximize Firm Value? Indications from a Quasi-Natural Experiment (August 6, 2019). Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 17-69, 28th Annual Conference on Financial Economics and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2993052 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2993052
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
M M Abudy , A Wohl
Corporate bond trading on a limit order book exchange
Review of Finance , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 1413 - 1440 Posted: 2018
Crossref
A V Acharya , P F Volpin
Corporate governance externalities
Review of Finance , volume 14 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Albuquerque , L Cabral , J Guedes
Relative performance, banker compensation, and systemic risk Posted: 2016
Crossref
Y Amihud , H Mendelson , B Lauterbach
Market microstructure and securities values: Evidence from the Tel Aviv Exchange
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 45 , p. 365 - 390 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
702
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,485
RANK
84,343
3 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies