Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Compliance to Strategy: Using the Three Lines of Defense Model to Evaluate and Motivate Internal Audit Contributions to Accounting Research

Posted: 29 Jun 2017

Dereck Barr-Pulliam

University of Louisville

Porschia Nkansa

California State University, Los Angeles - Department of Accounting

Kimberly Walker

Virginia Tech

Date Written: May 31, 2017

Abstract

We synthesize the extant behavioral and archival literature examining the internal audit function’s (IAF's) contribution to and association with research published in six broad and 13 subject-specific accounting journals since 2004. Rather than use the corporate governance cornerstone or mosaic frameworks used in comprehensive reviews of IAF-related literature published in 2004, we use the Institute of Internal Auditors' Three Lines of Defense (3LOD) in Effective Risk Management and Control. We use the 3LOD model to both evaluate extant and to motivate additional research on internal audit. The prior syntheses focus on the IAF as a "cornerstone" of corporate governance and how the IAF can contribute to improved governance. More specifically, those syntheses adopt a perspective that the IAF serves as a resource to each of the other three parties responsible for corporate governance. The 3LOD framework is similar in that it encourages continued coordination but differs in that it suggests a clearer delineation of responsibilities for control ownership, monitoring, and evaluation. This framework suggests the IAF is the final line of defense against significant risk or internal control weakness rather than either the primary or an equal line of defense. After 2004, our review of the literature suggests a concentration around three themes: external auditor reliance, use of the IAF as a management training ground, and more recently the IAF’s use of technology to enhance the assurance process. Applying this prior research to the 3LOD model identifies many areas for future research that we discuss throughout the paper.

Keywords: Internal Audit, Internal Control, Three Lines of Defense, Literature Review

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Barr-Pulliam, Dereck and Nkansa, Porschia and Walker, Kimberly, From Compliance to Strategy: Using the Three Lines of Defense Model to Evaluate and Motivate Internal Audit Contributions to Accounting Research (May 31, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2993364
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,906
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies