Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To Share or Not to Share: The Importance of Peer Firm Similarity to Auditor Choice

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 83 (May): 1-24, 2020

Posted: 30 Jun 2017 Last revised: 18 Jun 2020

Kenneth L. Bills

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Matthew Cobabe

Virginia Tech

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Sarah E. Stein

Virginia Tech

Date Written: February 22, 2020

Abstract

A firm’s decision on whether to choose the same auditor as a close competitor reflects a trade-off between exercising caution to protect its proprietary information and pursuing the benefits of auditor knowledge derived from providing services to comparable clients. We conduct a survey of audit partners whose responses confirm that clients weigh these competing incentives when selecting an external auditor. Building on our survey evidence from very experienced practitioners, we empirically analyze this phenomenon using archival data. Employing a pairwise similarity measure based on descriptions from regulatory filings, we find that, on average, peer firms are more likely to engage the same auditor when their product offerings are more similar. In instances when the focal firm shares the same auditor with more similar peer firms, the focal firm benefits from enhanced audit quality while also paying lower audit fees. Despite these benefits, we find that peer firms are less likely to share auditors with rivals in settings with greater perceived costs of information leakage as well as embedded auditor-client relationships in which the auditor retains deep client knowledge. Collectively, we provide evidence that, although the upside stemming from auditor knowledge, on average, dominates the downside of greater vulnerability to information leakage, proprietary cost concerns motivate firms to deviate from seeking auditor expertise.

Keywords: auditor choice, product similarity, auditor knowledge, proprietary costs

JEL Classification: M4, M42

Suggested Citation:

Bills, Kenneth L. and Cobabe, Matthew Alan and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Stein, Sarah E., To Share or Not to Share: The Importance of Peer Firm Similarity to Auditor Choice (February 22, 2020). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 83 (May): 1-24, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2994516 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2994516
 Not Available for Download
0 References
2 Citations
Joseph Atkins Johnston , Joseph Zhang
Auditor Style and Financial Reporting Similarity
Posted: 2 Aug 2018 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yangyang Chen , Jun Huang , Ting Li , Jeffrey A. Pittman
It’s a Small World: The Importance of Social Connections with Auditors to Mutual Fund Managers’ Portfolio Decisions
Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 77 Pages · Posted: 28 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 3 Aug 2021 · Downloads: 555
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,423
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies