Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary CSR Disclosure Works! Evidence from Asia-Pacific Banks

Jain, A., Keneley, Monica and Thomson, Dianne (2015) Voluntary CSR works! Evidence from Asia-Pacific Banks, Social Responsibility Journal, Vol 11, pp2-18

29 Pages Posted: 6 Jul 2017

Ameeta Jain

Deakin University - Faculty of Business and Law

Monica Keneley

Deakin University

Dianne Thomson

Deakin University - School of Accounting, Economics and Finance

Date Written: June 1, 2015

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to evaluate corporate social responsibility (CSR) reporting in six large banks each from Japan, China, Australia and India over the period of 2005-2011.

Design/methodology/approach – CSR and banks’ annual reports and websites were analysed using a comprehensive disclosure framework to evaluate the themes of ethical standards, extent of CSR reporting, environment, products, community, employees, supply chain management and benchmarking.

Findings – Over the seven years, bank CSR disclosure improved in all four countries. Australian banks were found to have the best scores and Indian banks demonstrated maximum improvement. Despite the absence of legislative requirements or standards for CSR, this paper finds that CSR reporting continued to improve in quality and quantity in the region on a purely voluntary basis.

Research limitations/implications – This study indicates that financial institutions have a commitment to CSR activities. The comparison between financial institutions in developed and developing economies suggests that the motivation for such activities is complex. A review of the studied banks suggests that strategic rather than economic drivers are an important influence.

Practical implications – Asia-Pacific Governments need not mandate bank CSR reporting standards as the banks improved their CSR reporting consistently over the seven years despite the Global Financial Crisis (GFC).

Originality/value – A disclosure framework index is used to assess the comprehensiveness of bank practice in relation to CSR reporting. This approach enables cross-sectional and cross-country comparisons over time and the ability to replicate and apply to other industries or sectors.

Suggested Citation:

Jain, Ameeta and Keneley, Monica and Thomson, Dianne, Voluntary CSR Disclosure Works! Evidence from Asia-Pacific Banks (June 1, 2015). Jain, A., Keneley, Monica and Thomson, Dianne (2015) Voluntary CSR works! Evidence from Asia-Pacific Banks, Social Responsibility Journal, Vol 11, pp2-18, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2994469
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
G Acquaah-Gaisie
Enhancing Corporate Accountability in Australia
Australian Journal of Corporate Law , volume 11 , p. 139 - 187 Posted: 2000
C Adams , G Frost
Managing social and environmental performance: do companies have adequate information?
Australian Accounting Review , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 2 - 11 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Anon
ANZ Quiet on Gunns Funding', The Sydney Morning Herald , volume 22 Posted: 2008-05
S Arvidsson
Communication of corporate social responsibility: A study of the views of management teams in large companies
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 96 , issue 3 , p. 339 - 54 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Anđelka Stojanović , Sanela Arsic , Isidora Milosevic , Ivan Mihajlovic
Prediction of the Effects of CSR on Employee Satisfaction Using Hybrid Sem-Ann Methodology
SFTR-D-24-05275 · 29 Pages · Posted: 24 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 28
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,612
RANK
505,214
1 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies