Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Dividend Payout Policy: Beyond Country-Level Governance

54 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2017 Last revised: 4 Jul 2017

Bin Chang

University of Ontario Institute of Technology (UOIT)

Shantanu Dutta

The University of Ontario Institute of Technology (UOIT)

Samir Saadi

School of Management, University of Ottawa

Pengcheng Zhu

University of San Diego - School of Business Administration

Date Written: June 29, 2017

Abstract

We address the mixed empirical findings on how corporate governance affects dividend payout policy by analyzing a large sample of firms from 30 countries. Our results indicate that firms with better firm-level governance pay more dividends, even when we control for country-level governance. However, this relation is only pronounced in countries with low shareholder rights. In addition, we find that when shareholder rights index is high, firm-level governance is unrelated to dividend payout. Our results are robust to the choice of firm-level governance index, the inclusion of the originality of law, culture, creditors’ rights, alternative measures of dividend payout, the hierarchical modeling technology, and approaches to address endogeneity concerns. We also find that dividend payments are associated with higher firm value, and investors positively value the dividend payments of poorly governed firms.

Keywords: Dividend policy; corporate governance; agency cost

JEL Classification: G34; G35

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Bin and Dutta, Shantanu and Saadi, Samir and Zhu, Pengcheng, Corporate Governance and Dividend Payout Policy: Beyond Country-Level Governance (June 29, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2994960 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2994960
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
4 Citations
Douglas J. Cumming , David Javakhadze , Tijana Rajkovic
Unlocking Dividends: The impact of managerial social capital on international corporate payouts
Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money , volume 95 , p. 102025 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Sipeng Zeng , Zhi Qu , Kuo Zhou
Tunneling and dividend payouts: Evidence from related party transactions in Chinese A-share market
44 Pages · Posted: 9 Jul 2024 · Downloads: 42
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ioannis Chasiotis , Georgios Loukopoulos , Kanellos Toudas
Organization Capital, Dividends and Firm Value: International Evidence
<span style="color: rgb(80, 80, 80); font-family: NexusSerifWebPro-Italic; background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">Forthcoming at Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions &amp; Money; Accepted Manuscript</span> · 63 Pages · Posted: 20 Dec 2024 · Last revised: 20 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 43
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sipeng Zeng , Zhi Qu , Kuo Zhou
Tunneling and Dividend Payouts: A Tale of Agency Conflicts in China
JPP-D-25-00073 · 48 Pages · Posted: 15 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 47
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
314
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,707
RANK
220,473
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies