Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Status and Determinants of Corporate Governance Disclosure: The Case of the Gulf Countries

The Journal of Developing Areas, 51(4):157-165

Posted: 11 Jul 2017

Nermeen F. Shehata

The American University in Cairo

Date Written: October 1, 2017

Abstract

Corporate Governance Disclosure (CGD) is important for countries aiming to attract international investors and increase foreign investment. CGD helps mitigate the agency problem, improve firm value and enhance capital market efficiency. This research aims to assess the level of CGD in the Gulf countries. The Gulf countries have been selected due to their unique institutional and corporate characteristics. After assessing the CGD level in the Gulf, the association between diversity, board characteristics and CGD is identified while controlling for firm characteristics. Four board characteristics are used: the proportion of independent nonexecutive directors on board, the proportion of family members on board, role duality and board size; whereas diversity variables included proportion of foreign board members, proportion of foreign members in the senior management team, proportion of female board members and proportion of female members in the senior management team. A self-constructed disclosure index is developed to measure CGD. The index includes six sections: ownership structure and investor rights, financial transparency and information disclosure, information on auditors, board and senior management structure and process, information on board committees, and finally, corporate behavior and responsibility. This classification follows most of the international disclosure indices. The sample size includes 270 publicly listed non-financial companies listed on all Gulf stock exchanges, with data taken from 2009 annual reports. The average CGD is 32 percent, the maximum is 63 percent whereas the minimum is 5 percent. Proportion of independent non-executive directors on board, proportion of foreign board members and proportion of foreign members in the senior management team had a significant positive relationship with CGD. This research is considered the first to assess CGD across the six Gulf countries. This study has important regulatory and managerial implications.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Disclosure, Gulf, GCC, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE

JEL Classification: G34, G39, M40, M49, O16

Suggested Citation:

Shehata, Nermeen F., The Status and Determinants of Corporate Governance Disclosure: The Case of the Gulf Countries (October 1, 2017). The Journal of Developing Areas, 51(4):157-165, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2995466
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,196
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies