Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Comparability and Relative Performance Evaluation in CEO Compensation

Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2995039

45 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2017 Last revised: 1 Jun 2018

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Michael Neel

University of North Texas - Department of Accounting

Adrienne Rhodes

University of Iowa

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 25, 2018

Abstract

We investigate whether accounting comparability is associated with the likelihood that CEO compensation is tied to relative accounting performance (e.g., return on assets). We predict that higher accounting comparability increases the risk-sharing benefit of accounting-based RPE because peer firm performance better controls for common risk in RPE firm performance. Thus, firms that have higher accounting comparability with potential performance peers will be more likely to include accounting-based RPE as a component of the total CEO compensation contract. We find support for this prediction using (1) an explicit test design that relies on the ex ante terms of CEO compensation contracts obtained from proxy disclosures, and (2) an implicit design that relies on the actual realizations of CEO compensation. To provide further evidence, we examine the association between accounting comparability and the selection of performance peers when the CEO compensation contract includes an accounting-based RPE component. We find that higher comparability between the RPE firm and a potential peer firm increases (decreases) the potential peer firm’s likelihood of being selected into (dropped from) the peer group. Cross-sectional analyses show that this association is less pronounced, or not present, when the relative performance measure is price-based (as opposed to accounting-based), indicating that these results do not merely reflect a more general role of comparability in all RPE contracts.

Keywords: Accounting Comparability, Relative Performance Evaluation, RPE, Peer Selection

JEL Classification: M12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lobo, Gerald J. and Neel, Michael and Rhodes, Adrienne, Accounting Comparability and Relative Performance Evaluation in CEO Compensation (May 25, 2018). Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2995039, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2995039 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2995039
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
A Ahmed , M Neel , I Safdar
Evidence on the association between accounting comparability and stock price efficiency with respect to accruals and unexpected earnings Posted: 2017
A Albuquerque
Peer firms in relative performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , p. 69 - 89 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Albuquerque
Do growth-option firms use less relative performance evaluation? The Accounting Review , volume 89 , p. 27 - 60 Posted: 2014
Crossref
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
565
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,612
RANK
111,454
5 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies