Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Taxation and M&A Prices

39 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2017 Last revised: 30 Oct 2017

Dominik von Hagen

University of Mannheim - Department of Business Administration and Taxation

Fabian Pönnighaus

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Date Written: October 23, 2017

Abstract

We show that corporate taxation systems regarding foreign dividends and capital gains across 49 countries differ in many aspects, contradicting the requirements for capital ownership neutrality and indicating that ownership patterns are distorted. Consequently, a national tax policy maker may ask which taxation system improves the position of its multinational entreprises in bidding for foreign targets. To address this question, we develop a theoretical model on the impact of foreign dividends and capital gains taxation on cross-border M&A prices from the acquirer’s perspective and theoretically compare different taxation systems. In a next step, we empirically validate our model in a regression analysis on a large cross-border M&A data set. Based on this analysis, we find that foreign dividends taxation rather than capital gains taxation impacts M&A prices. Finally, we provide tax policy suggestions.

Keywords: International taxation, Repatriation taxes, Capital gains taxes, Lock-in effect, Multinational entities, Cross-border M&As

JEL Classification: F23, G34, H25, H26, H32, H73

Suggested Citation:

von Hagen, Dominik and Pönnighaus, Fabian, International Taxation and M&A Prices (October 23, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2995051 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2995051
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Governments and multinational corporations in the race to the bottom
Tax Notes International , volume 41 , issue 5 , p. 459 - 474 Posted: 2006
R Altshuler , G Hubbard
The effect of the tax reform act of 1986 on the location of assets in financial services firms
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 109 - 127 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Apple Expands Capital Return Program to $200 Billion Posted: 2015
Annual Report Form 10-K Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,413
RANK
264,473
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies