Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Updation of India's Corporate Laws to Realities of 21st Century

Journal Of Commerce And Business Studies, Delhi School Of Economics, University Of Delhi (2013)

Posted: 6 Jul 2017

J. Sharma

University of Delhi - Delhi School of Economics

Date Written: jan 1, 2013

Abstract

The Satyam fraud has shattered the dreams of different categories of investors, shocked the government and regulators alike and led to questioning the accounting practices of statutory auditors and corporate governance norms in India. Severe corporate governance problems emerged out of the above-mentioned corporate wreckage. Many of the governance problems were noticed in several other such corporate failures in USA, UK and Europe. These countries reacted strongly to the corporate failures and codes & standards on corporate governance came to the centre stage. Corporate scandals especially in the United States triggered reforms in corporate governance, accounting practices and disclosures the world over and many countries have amended their corporate I aw s to keep pace with the changed world.

The long awaited Companies Bill, passed by both the Houses of Parliament got finally the nod of Honorable President of India and has also been notified. With the notification, Indian corporate sector will soon be governed by a new, modified law and bid goodbye to 57 year old Companies Act. The essence of the recently passed Companies Act is to totally overhaul the Company law with a view to promote self-regulation, eradicate unwarranted regulatory approvals, vest shareholders with greater powers and encourage greater transparency in the disclosures by corporate entities. The new law replaces the 1956 Act and consolidates a number of its provisions. It allows for a number of issues, currently specified in the Act, or its schedules, to be specified in the rules. In the light of Satyam fiasco, many new and unheard concepts have been introduced in the new law that proposes sweeping changes to the existing company laws. Corporate governance is one aspect where heightened emphasis has been given in the law to ensure accountability of individuals at the helm of affairs of a company. The new law seeks to strengthen corporate governance by introducing new provisions related to independent director, rotation of auditors, class action, secretarial audit, insider trading and CSR.

Suggested Citation:

Sharma, J., Updation of India's Corporate Laws to Realities of 21st Century (jan 1, 2013). Journal Of Commerce And Business Studies, Delhi School Of Economics, University Of Delhi (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2996401
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,061
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies