Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The New Market Manipulation

Emory Law Journal, Vol. 66, p. 1253, 2017

Temple University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2017-20

62 Pages Posted: 6 Jul 2017 Last revised: 4 Aug 2017

Tom C. W. Lin

Temple University - James E. Beasley School of Law

Date Written: July 3, 2017

Abstract

Markets face a new and daunting mode of manipulation. With this new mode of market manipulation, millions of dollars can vanish in seconds, rogue actors can halt the trading of billion-dollar companies, and trillion-dollar financial markets can be distorted with a simple click or a few lines of code. Every investor and institution is at risk. This is the new precarious reality of our financial markets.

This Article is about our ominous financial reality, this dangerous new mode of market manipulation, and the need for pragmatic policies to better address the rising threats to manipulate our financial markets. To start, the Article offers an overview about the recent rise and regulation of new financial technology. It begins with a close examination of The Flash Crash of 2010 and the publication of Flash Boys by Michael Lewis. Next, the Article surveys the changing landscape of market manipulation. It identifies traditional manipulation methods like cornering, front running, and pumping-and-dumping, as well as new manipulation methods like spoofing, pinging, and mass misinformation. It explains how new cybernetic market manipulation schemes that leverage modern technologies like electronic networks, social media, and artificial intelligence are more harmful than traditional schemes. The Article then grapples with why this new mode of market manipulation will present critical challenges for regulators. Finally, it recommends three pragmatic proposals for combating the new threats of cybernetic market manipulation by improving intermediary integrity, enhancing financial cybersecurity, and simplifying investment strategies. Ultimately, this Article provides an original and improved framework for thinking and acting anew about market regulation, market operations, and market manipulation.

Keywords: market manipulation, fin-tech, financial technology, financial fraud, securities fraud, securities regulation, financial regulation, algorithmic trading, high frequency trading, systemic risk, artificial intelligence, cybercrime, flash crash, fake news, Flash Boys, LIBOR

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Tom C. W., The New Market Manipulation (July 3, 2017). Emory Law Journal, Vol. 66, p. 1253, 2017, Temple University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2017-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2996896
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
214 References
Nathaniel Popper , &amp; Jenny Anderson
Trader Arrested in Manipulation That Contributed to 2010 'Flash Crash Posted: 2015-04-21
James Surowiecki
New Ways to Crash the Market, NEW YORKER Posted: 2015-05-18
For a discussion of the post-Flash Crash regulatory actions, see infra Part II
See Graham Bowley
The Flash Crash Posted: 2010-11-08
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
18,347
RANK
5,683
15 Citations
214 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Temple University Beasley School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies