Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Disclosure Practices: A Comparative Study of India & UK

Journal Of Commerce And Business Studies, Delhi School Of Economics, University Of Delhi (2013)

Posted: 6 Jul 2017

Dr. Simmar Preet

Independent

Date Written: July 1, 2013

Abstract

Corporate financial reporting is a vital communication system between corporate and users. The increasing complexities of economic & financial events; along with the rise of the efficient capital market have led to the increasing importance of disclosures in financial reporting. Corporate reporting & disclosure of information to the financial community play an important part in building investor’s confidence & interest, and in stimulating the developments of capital markets. Disclosure of corporate information assumes more significance in the context of the emerging capital markets. India is one amongst these markets. These markets captured the interest of investors worldwide with their promise of offering substantially higher returns than those at attainable in more developed financial markets like of UK and USA. The worldwide pre-eminence of U.S. and U.K. capital markets has been associated, in part, with the stringent nature of financial reporting in these countries, which in turn resulted in the increased availability of information for decision-making purposes. The relationship between accounting information and the growth of domestic securities markets is a crucial policy issue for developing countries that aim to boost capital inflows to their economies.

Despite their potential for significantly higher gains, investments in emerging capital markets are also prone to greater volatility. One of the factors contributing to this volatility is inadequate disclosure of information. Insufficient or unclear information may hamper the ability of markets to function, may increase the cost of capital and result in a poor allocation of resources.

The background of turmoil in corporate governance provides the motivation for this study. The aim of this study is to compare the corporate disclosure practices of the two countries considered to be culturally different- India and UK. Selection of UK corporate disclosure practices as a benchmark will provide an opportunity to know the areas in which disclosure practices of the Indian corporate sector is lagging behind and need improvement.

The UK has demonstrated global leadership in both the codification and practice of good corporate governance. Research on corporate governance, disclosure & transparency norms is topical because attention in recent years has focused on this area. Integration of India with the world economy demands that Indian industry confirms to the standard set of international rules. This is reinforced by concern on the part of lending institutions about the functioning of companies financed by them. The significant presence of foreign institutional investors demands greater professionalism on the part of the Indian corporate management.

Keywords: Corporate Disclosure, Transparency, Financial Disclosure, Corporate Governance, India, Uk

Suggested Citation:

Preet, Dr. Simmar, Corporate Disclosure Practices: A Comparative Study of India & UK (July 1, 2013). Journal Of Commerce And Business Studies, Delhi School Of Economics, University Of Delhi (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2996334
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,271
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies