Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Responsibility Reporting: A Study of Indian Companies

Journal Of Commerce And Business Studies, Delhi School Of Economics, University Of Delhi (2013)

Posted: 6 Jul 2017

Deepti Rana

Independent

Date Written: July 1, 2013

Abstract

Adoption of responsible business practices is as vital as financial and operational performance of any business. To bring CSR in management and reporting framework it has been decided to mandate inclusion of Business Responsibility Reports (“BR reports”) as part of the Annual Reports for listed entities from 2012-13 onwards (mandatory for BSE 100 companies) by way of inserting Clause 55 in the Listing Agreement. The mandated companies have filed their first BRR in the specified format and it's time to study, compare and assess their reports in order to observe how top companies view and conduct their CSR. The study for the first time maps the business responsibility reporting of 100 top Indian companies listed on BSE against NVG Principles. It seeks to find the more favored areas of CSR by these companies and make a scorecard on Business responsibility based on BRR and find the nature of its relationship with the performance of the company. Though mandatory many companies have yet not furnished their BRR in the annual report and BR Reporting did not have a significant relationship with performance. There is on average 75% compliance and disclosure (based on disclosure score) on suggested CSR norms. On anaverage BSE 100 companies spend around 1.27% of their profit after tax on CSR activities. This paper will be useful to any Indian company in understanding more about its shortcomings and opportunities in the field.

Keywords: Business Responsibility Report (BRR), Sustainability, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), NVG Principles

Suggested Citation:

Rana, Deepti, Business Responsibility Reporting: A Study of Indian Companies (July 1, 2013). Journal Of Commerce And Business Studies, Delhi School Of Economics, University Of Delhi (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2996360
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,241
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies