Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Chapter 11 Bankruptcy and Loan Covenant Strictness

48 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2017 Last revised: 3 Sep 2017

Garence Staraci

Yale University, School of Management

Meradj Pouraghdam

Institut d'Etudes Politiques de Paris (Sciences Po)

Date Written: July 2, 2017

Abstract

We propose a new determinant of covenant strictness in syndicated loan contracts: the degree of creditor friendliness of Chapter 11 bankruptcy practices. This new channel dictates that the more debtor(creditor)-friendly the bankruptcy practice is, the more creditors will seek to increase(decrease) their level of loan monitoring outside of bankruptcy through an adjustment in covenant strictness. Borrowers would agree on stricter covenants in exchange for a lower loan spread, and vice-versa. We first theoretically illustrate our claim by providing a framework linking creditor control inside and outside of bankruptcy. We next empirically show that judicial discretion is the primary driver of bankruptcy outcomes. This finding allows us to use several debtor or creditor-friendly Chapter 11 bankruptcy practice proxies as instruments in order to test our channel, with a focus on the U.S. manufacturing sector. Using both covenant tightness and covenant intensity as proxies for covenant strictness, we show that our legal channel not only impacts covenant strictness but also ultimately accounts for a significant fraction of the total cost of credit.

Keywords: Chapter 11 Bankruptcy, Syndicated Loans, Covenant Strictness.

JEL Classification: G33, K12

Suggested Citation:

Staraci, Garence and Pouraghdam, Meradj, Chapter 11 Bankruptcy and Loan Covenant Strictness (July 2, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2996235 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2996235
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
C Definition of Variables Cash Flow Volatility: Ratio of the standard deviation of the past eight earnings changes to the average book size over the past eight quarters
Covenant Intensity: Number of financial covenants associated with the facility. GDP Growth: Percentage quarterly growth in real GDP at annual rate. Invested Capital (Total): Invested capital -(total + deferred) taxes and investment tax credit -minority interest. Leverage: (Debt in current liabilities + total long-term debt) divided by total assets
Corp. Spread: Difference between Moody's rated Aaa corporate bond yield and Baa corporate bond yield
Loan Spread
Measured as all-in-spread drawn: the amount the borrower pays in basis points over LIBOR or LIBOR equivalent for each dollar drawn down. This measure adds the borrowing spread of the loan over LIBOR with any annual fee paid to the bank group
Operating Income (Before Depreciation): Total operating revenues -Total operation expense + Total maintenance expense + Total taxes other than income taxes. Profitability: EBITDA divided by total assets. Purpose: Indicator variables for the following categories reported in DealScan: debt repayment, working capital, takeover or other. Sales: Total Sales (net)
Total Assets: Total book assets in billions USD. Tangibility: Net property, plant, and equipment divided by total assets. Working Capital : Total Current Assets (excluding Cash) -Total Current Liabilities
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
422
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,807
RANK
158,514
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies