Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Life Cycle and Advisory Directors

Australian Journal of Management, Forthcoming

29 Pages Posted: 6 Jul 2017 Last revised: 21 Aug 2017

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Md. Borhan Uddin Bhuiyan

Massey University

Mostafa Monzur Hasan

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance; Macquarie University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 2, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates whether the presence of advisory directors and monitoring directors varies across firm life cycle stages. We follow a parsimonious life cycle proxy based on the predicted behaviour of operating, investing, and financing cash flows across the different life cycle stages that result from firm performance and the allocation of resources. Using an Australian sample, this study shows that compared to mature stage firms, firms in the introduction, shake-out and decline stages have more advisory directors. With respect to the demand for monitoring directors, we find that compared to mature-stage firms, firms in the introduction, shake-out and decline stages have fewer monitoring directors on the board. We contribute to the literature on boards of directors by documenting that firms choose an optimal board structure based on their economic characteristics.

Keywords: Advisory directors; firm life cycle; monitoring directors; Australia

JEL Classification: D22, G38, M14

Suggested Citation:

Habib, Ahsan and Bhuiyan, Md. Borhan Uddin and Hasan, Mostafa Monzur, Firm Life Cycle and Advisory Directors (July 2, 2017). Australian Journal of Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2996140 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2996140
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
Adams R Ferreira , D
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
R Adams , B Hermalin , M Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: a conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Anthony J , Ramesh K
Association between accounting performance measures and stock prices: A test of the life cycle hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , p. 203 - 227 Posted: 1992
C S Armstrong , Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,333
RANK
549,043
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies