Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect Accounting Conservatism in Emerging Market – Using Lo Eko Model

50 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2017

Marselinus Asri

Atma Jaya Makassar University

Date Written: July 6, 2017

Abstract

The research aim is to examine other variables that also affect the relationship between conservatism and earnings quality in emerging market. Normal Corporate Governance is a set of mechanisms that can protect minority shareholders from expropriation by managers and insider shareholders with an emphasis on legal mechanisms.

Data Population are companies listed in Indonesia Stock Exchange during the period 2010-20015. The sample selection is based on purposive sampling method with the purpose of obtaining a representative sample. An Alternative measure of accounting conservatism used is the instrumental variables of Accounting conservatism (VIKV) developed by Lo Eko (Lo, 2005). The quality of earnings can be measured through discretionary accruals calculated by way of setting aside total accruals (TACC) and nondiscretionary accruals (NDACC). In calculating DACC, Modified Jones Model is used because it is considered better among other models to measure earnings management (Dechow et al., 1995).

The results of this study indicate that the Instrumental Variables Conservatism (VIK) has a significant positive effect on the Earning Quality. This means that management positively signals the application of accounting conservatism within the company and has an impact on improving the quality of earnings. The next investor is expected to provide more valuations by providing a high premium for the company's stock price.

Keywords: Accounting Conservatism, Corporate Governance, Earning Quality, Modified Jones Model

Suggested Citation:

Asri, Marselinus, The Effect Accounting Conservatism in Emerging Market – Using Lo Eko Model (July 6, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2997962 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2997962
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
D Pjlnjt
Posted: 2004
Crossref
TACC it / A it 1 / Ait-1 (DREV-dREC) / At-1
Crossref
Ppeit
Posted: 2004
M Bibliography Asri
PERSISTENCE ACCRUAL, IDIOSYNCRATIC RISK AND ASSET PRICING (Study at Companies Listed on Indonesia Stock Exchange). Manuscript Submited
Journal of Financial Regulation Posted: 2017
Load more
1 Citations
Nerissa Arviana , Nofina Sari
B-Spline Modelling & Fitting the Term Structure
15 Pages · Posted: 5 Feb 2019 · Downloads: 42
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,817
RANK
451,432
1 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies