Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting and Financial Statement Auditing in China

Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, 2017

Posted: 6 Jul 2017

Li Liu

Deakin University; Deakin University - Deakin Business School

Peter Carey

Deakin University

Wen Qu

Deakin University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 4, 2017

Abstract

This study finds a positive association between voluntary corporate social responsibility (CSR) reporting and audit fees in China. In contrast to prior research from the US, CSR reporting in China is associated with greater earnings management. Results suggest that Chinese firms use CSR reporting as a strategic device for window dressing, and that auditors charge higher fees in response to heightened audit risk and greater audit effort. Further, the positive effects of CSR reporting on audit fees and earnings management are more significant for non-state-owned enterprises (non-SOEs) than for state-owned enterprises, which suggests that non-SOEs have not fully embraced the principles of CSR and essentially use CSR reporting to create the appearance of legitimacy. In additional tests, we find that non-SOEs with more highly rated CSR performance or longer CSR reports are associated with lower audit fees and less earnings management.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, audit fees, earnings quality, CSR disclosure, audit risk, window dressing.

JEL Classification: D21, D8, M42, O1

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Li and Carey, Peter and Qu, Wen, Voluntary Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting and Financial Statement Auditing in China (July 4, 2017). Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2997294
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,691
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies