Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Future Governance Options for the Mars Corporation

Saïd Business School WP 2017-10

34 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2017

Jonathan Michie

University of Oxford - Kellogg College

Kate Roll

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Date Written: June 1, 2017

Abstract

This paper argues that ownership forms and governance arrangements will play a critical role in ensuring the future of mutual practices and outcomes for the Mars Corporation. Mutuality is one of the company’s five core principles, and members of Mars Incorporated have increasingly been exploring how mutuality can be harnessed and embedded, thereby producing positive outcomes for both the corporation and its stakeholders. This paper looks specifically at how ownership structures can contribute to the mutuality of the corporation.

There are plenty of member-owned ‘mutual’ businesses that fail to develop and implement the necessary policies and practices to take full advantage of their mutuality for business purposes: it is an opportunity lost. Conversely, there are non-mutuals, in the sense of organisations that are not member-owned, but which pursue mutuality as a business principle. These companies gain some advantage from so doing, but perhaps not to the full extent that would be possible were those principles to be supported by a degree of actual mutual ownership, and with less chance of that mutuality being sustainable. Companies that do not reward their employees or customers with any actual ownership stakes may nonetheless seek to engender a ‘sense of ownership’ amongst them: this may pay dividends, but it is likely to be more effective and sustainable if underpinned by a degree of actual ownership.

This paper argues firstly, that to get the most out of mutuality, and to make is sustainable, requires a degree of mutual ownership. Using ‘trust’ or ‘foundation’ structures has proved successful at delivering such outcomes in a range of companies across the leading industrialised economies.

Looking forward, to the question of how Mars Incorporated may choose to structure its own ownership and governance arrangements in the future, the company is involved in a range of interesting activities globally that might usefully seek to develop forms of mutuality with their suppliers and other ‘stakeholders’ in their distributional value chain. In so doing, Mars would be promoting mutual ownership within other, new companies. This would have three beneficial effects. First, it would strengthen the sustainability of those ventures themselves. Second, it would contribute positively to the degree of corporate diversity and resilience within those economies. And third, it would contribute in imaginative and innovative ways to the growth and development of the mutual sector itself, globally and over time.

Suggested Citation:

Michie, Jonathan and Roll, Kate, Future Governance Options for the Mars Corporation (June 1, 2017). Saïd Business School WP 2017-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2998049 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2998049
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Lewis Carroll
Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There Posted: 1871
Chi , Tzu-Shian Nai-Wen , Han
Exploring the Linkages between Formal Ownership and Psychological Ownership for the Organization: The Mediating Role of Organizational Justice
Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology , volume 81 , issue 4 , p. 691 - 711 Posted: 2008
Crossref
William Davies
Reinventing the Firm Posted: 2009
William Davies , Jonathan Michie
Employee Ownership: Defusing the business succession time-bomb in Wales. The Wales Co-operative Centre Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,308
RANK
342,507
3 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies