Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Signing Auditor-Specific Characteristics and Audit Report Lag: A Research from Turkey

Journal of Applied Business Research, 2018

18 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2017 Last revised: 18 Oct 2019

Murat Ocak

Trakya University, Uzunköprü School of Applied Sciences, Department of Management Information Systems

Evrim Özden

Independent

Date Written: July 7, 2016

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to examine the effect of signing auditor-specific characteristics on the audit report lag using 968 firm-year observations from Borsa İstanbul in the period 2008-2013. The main findings indicate that the gender and education level of signing auditor have a positive effect on audit report lag. Also big4 audit firms in Turkey encourage auditees to present financial statements timely and they play a substantial role in the reporting. Audit opinion directly affects audit report lag. Firm performance and firm age inversely affect audit report lag. Moreover, big 4’s female signing auditors lead to more audit delay. The higher educational level of signing auditors leads to more audit report lag. Signing auditors who hold master’s or Ph.D. degrees and also female signing auditors are associated with more audit report lag in firms audited by big4 and non-big4 firms.

Keywords: Audit reporting lag; auditor-specific characteristics; big4; gender, education level

Suggested Citation:

Ocak, Murat and Özden, Evrim, Signing Auditor-Specific Characteristics and Audit Report Lag: A Research from Turkey (July 7, 2016). Journal of Applied Business Research, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2998842
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
J L Abernathy , B Beyer , A Masli , C Stefaniak
The association between characteristics audit committee accounting expertise, audit committee chairs, and financial reporting timeliness. Advances in Accounting, Incorporating Advances in International Accounting , volume 30 , p. 283 - 297 Posted: 2014
S Abidin , N A Ahmad-Zaluki
Proceedings of International Congress on Interdisciplinary Business and Social Science , p. 873 - 878 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R A A Ahmad , K A Kamarudin
Audit delay and the timeliness of corporate reporting: Malaysian evidence
Proceedings of Communication Hawaii International Conference on Business Posted: 2003-03-07
Alim Al Ayub Ahmed , Shakawat Hossain
Audit Report Lag: A Study of the Bangladeshi Listed Companies
ASA University Review, Vol. 4 No. 2, July–December, 2010, Pages: 8 Posted: 25 Jun 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
555
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,413
RANK
114,072
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies