Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Proprietary Costs Deter Insider Trading?

69 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2017 Last revised: 11 Dec 2023

Lyungmae Choi

The University of Newcastle

Lucile Faurel

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Stephen A. Hillegeist

Arizona State University (ASU) - W. P. Carey School of Business, School of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 7, 2023

Abstract

Insider trading conveys insiders’ private information to outsiders. This private information potentially benefits rival firms, which may reduce the competitive advantage of the insiders’ firms. Using a composite proprietary cost measure, we find proprietary costs are negatively associated with insiders’ purchases, especially when their trades are more likely to be informative to rivals. Consistent with proprietary costs increasing the costs of insider purchases and, hence, the expected benefits required to trade, insiders earn significantly higher abnormal profits when proprietary costs are higher. Exploiting settings with exogenous and event-driven variation in proprietary costs, we find insiders significantly reduce their purchases when noncompete agreement enforceability is high and before new product launches. Moreover, firms with higher proprietary costs are more likely to impose window-based insider trading restrictions and insiders with greater equity holdings reduce their purchases more strongly in the presence of proprietary costs. Finally, we provide evidence of real effects of insider trading on rivals’ investment decisions. We find that investments are associated with insiders’ purchases at rival firms, and these associations are stronger when proprietary costs at rivals are higher. Our findings indicate insiders and firms are aware of potential proprietary costs when insiders trade on private information, and respond accordingly.

Keywords: Proprietary costs, insider trading, competition, managerial learning, investment decisions

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Lyungmae and Faurel, Lucile and Hillegeist, Stephen A., Do Proprietary Costs Deter Insider Trading? (December 7, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2999810 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2999810
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
114 References
D Aboody , Lev B
Information Asymmetry, R&D, and Insider Gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell , R Griffith , P Howitt
Competition and Innovation: An Inverted-U Relationship
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , issue 2 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
A Agrawal , J F Jaffe
Does Section 16b deter insider trading by target managers?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 39 , issue 2-3 , p. 295 - 319 Posted: 1995
S Albring , M Banyi , D Dhaliwal , R Pereira
Does the Firm Information Environment Influence Financing Decisions? A Test Using Disclosure Regulation
Management Science , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 456 - 478 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
392
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,939
RANK
114,562
114 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies