Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Intellectual Capital, Corporate Social Responsibility, and Good Corporate Governance Affect Indonesia's Mining Companies Value?

Accounting and Finance Review (AFR), Vol.2(2) 2017, 57-63

7 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2017 Last revised: 19 Jul 2017

Nadia Azalia Putri

University of Jember

Tatang Ary Gumanti

Widya Mandala Surabaya Catholic University

Isti Fadah

University of Jember - Faculty of Economics

Supriyadi Adi

State Polytechnic of Jember

Date Written: March 12, 2017

Abstract

Objective - The purpose of this study was to analyze the effect of Intellectual Capital (IC), Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) disclosure, and Good Corporate Governance (GCG) on the value of mining companies (as measured by Tobin's Q) listed in Indonesia Stock Exchange period 2011-2015.

Methodology/Technique - Intellectual capital was measured by Value Added Capital Employed (VACA), Value Added Human Capital (VAHU), and Structural Capital Value Added (STVA). CSR disclosure was measured using Global Reporting Initiative index. GCG was proxied using independent commissioner, managerial ownership, audit committee, and institutional ownership. Empirical analysis was conducted using linear multiple regression analysis. The samples consisted 15 mining firms.

Findings - The results showed that VACA, VAHU, and institutional ownership had a positive and significant effect on company value. STVA and independent commissioner have a positive but insignificant effect on company value. Audit committee and managerial ownership have a negative and insignificant effect on company value.

Novelty - The study suggests managers to improve the company value by investing IC subcomponents; that is, physical capital and human capital and also add the number of shares held by institutions.

Note: Type of Paper: Empirical

Keywords: Company Value; Corporate Social Responsibility; Good Corporate Governance; Intellectual Capital

JEL Classification: M14, M41, M51

Suggested Citation:

Putri, Nadia Azalia and Gumanti, Tatang Ary and Fadah, Isti and Adi, Supriyadi, Do Intellectual Capital, Corporate Social Responsibility, and Good Corporate Governance Affect Indonesia's Mining Companies Value? (March 12, 2017). Accounting and Finance Review (AFR), Vol.2(2) 2017, 57-63, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3000162
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
B Adeneye , M Ahmed
Corporate Social Responsibility and Company Performance
Journal of Business Studies Quarterly , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2015
I Berzkalne , E Zelgalve
Intellectual capital and company value
Procedia-Social and Behavioral Sciences , volume 110 , p. 887 - 896 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Chen
Adjustments in Managerial Ownership and Changes in Firm Value
International Review of Economics and Finance , volume 25 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Chen , S Cheng , Y Hwang
An Empirical Investigation of the Relationship between Intellectual Capital and Firms' Market Value and Financial Performance
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 6 , p. 159 - 176 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
296
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,515
RANK
234,984
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies