Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Critical Analysis of Startup Business in Indonesia by Means of Mato-Based Profit Sharing Accounting

Accounting and Finance Review (AFR), Vol.2(2) 2017. 42-49

8 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2017 Last revised: 19 Jul 2017

Hanif Hanif

Kwik Kian Gie School of Business

Date Written: March 12, 2017

Abstract

Objective - This research aims to analyze and deconstruct digital-based startup business practice and offer a new concept of sharing economy. The online transportation companies operated in Indonesia, have been selected as the subject of the research.

Methodology/Technique - A critical paradigm referring to mato-based profit sharing accounting was used as a method of the research. Data was collected from online transportation companies' websites as well as either news or media article published on mass media.

Findings - On the other side, it has not completely been in line with the practice of profit sharing economy concept which has long been the ideal of the constitutional ideology of Indonesia. Thus, in the final section of this research, a new concept of sharing economy, which is relatively in line with the constitutional ideology of Indonesia is proposed for practice in startup companies.

Novelty - The study proposes new concept of sharing economy for startup business.

Note: Type of Paper: Review

Keywords: Incentive; Startup Business; Sharing Economy; Profit-Sharing; Mato System; Constitutional Ideology.

JEL Classification: M13, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hanif, Hanif, A Critical Analysis of Startup Business in Indonesia by Means of Mato-Based Profit Sharing Accounting (March 12, 2017). Accounting and Finance Review (AFR), Vol.2(2) 2017. 42-49, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3000135
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
R Baswir
Demokrasi Terjajah, Kompas Newspaper Posted: 2012
G D M Burrell , Gareth
Sociological Paradigms and Organizational Analysis Posted: 1997
Hanif
Pencarian Makna Dibalik Akuntansi Kewirausahaan Berbasis Kearifan Lokal [Search Meaning Behind Local Wisdom-Based Entrepreneurship Accounting
Jurnal Akuntansi , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2015
Hanif
Management Control System Design: An Interpretive Ethnography
Procedia -Social and Behavioral Sciences , volume 211 , p. 119 - 126 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,278
RANK
311,489
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies