Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
State Ownership, Family Ownership, and Sustainability Report Quality: The Moderating Role of Board Effectiveness

Accounting and Finance Review (AFR), Vol.2(2) 2017, 15-25

11 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2017 Last revised: 19 Jul 2017

Astrid Rudyanto

Trisakti School of Management

Date Written: March 14, 2017

Abstract

Objective - This research analyzes the effect of state ownership, family ownership, and the effectiveness of the board's moderating role on sustainability report quality of Indonesian companies.

Methodology/Technique - Sustainability report quality is a factor analysis of percentage of disclosure quantity score with GRI G3 and G4 (content analysis), the natural logarithm of the number of pages, existence of opinion, and existence of an independent party assessment on GRI application check, independent party assessment. Board effectiveness is divided into three categories: independence, size, and competence.

Findings - Using data of 123 companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange between 2010 and 2014, it is found that state ownership, board effectiveness based on independence, and competence positively affect sustainability report quality while family ownership and board effectiveness based on size do not affect sustainability report quality. For board effectiveness moderating role, board effectiveness based on independence and size strengthen state ownership effect on sustainability report quality. Meanwhile, board effectiveness does not weaken family ownership effect on sustainability report quality.

Novelty - This research contributes to literature regarding the relationship between corporate governance and sustainability report quality, particularly the effectiveness of a board's moderating role to sustainability report quality, which is scarcely researched.

Note: Type of Paper: Empirical

Keywords: Sustainability Report Quality; State Ownership; Family Ownership; Board Effectiveness; Corporate Governance; Stakeholder.

JEL Classification: G32, M41, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Rudyanto, Astrid, State Ownership, Family Ownership, and Sustainability Report Quality: The Moderating Role of Board Effectiveness (March 14, 2017). Accounting and Finance Review (AFR), Vol.2(2) 2017, 15-25, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3000149
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
H Abd-Mutalib , C Z Muhammad Jamil , W N Wan-Hussin
The Availability, Extent and Quality of Sustainability Reporting by Malaysian Listed Firms: Subsequent to Mandatory Disclosure
Asian Journal of Finance & Accounting , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 239 - 257 Posted: 2014
Crossref
S N Abdullah , R Mohamad , M Z Mokhtar
Board Independence, Ownership and CSR of Malaysia Large Firms Posted: 2011
Crossref
W Aerts , D Cormier
Media Legitimacy and Corporate Environmental Communication. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S Afanador , A Bernal , A Oneto
Effectiveness and Structure of Boards of Directors at State-owned Enterprises in Latin America and the Caribbean. Public Policy and Productive Transformation Series Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
388
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,496
RANK
174,532
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies