Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Overload and Disclosure Smoothing

Review of Accounting Studies

56 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2017 Last revised: 14 Jun 2019

Kimball Chapman
Nayana Reiter

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Hal D. White

University of Notre Dame

Christopher D. Williams

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Date Written: May 31, 2019

Abstract

This paper examines whether managers can reduce the detrimental effects of information overload by spreading out, or temporally smoothing, disclosures. We begin by attempting to identify managerial smoothing. We find that when there are multiple disclosures for the same event date, managers spread the disclosures out over several days. Managers are also more likely to delay a disclosure when there has been a disclosure made within the three days before the event date. Finally, managers are more likely to engage in disclosure smoothing when disclosures are longer, the information environment is more robust, firm information is complex, uncertainty is high, and disclosure news is more positive. Our second set of analyses examines whether there are market benefits to disclosure smoothing. Using two different measures of disclosure smoothing, we find that smoothing is associated with increased liquidity, reduced stock price volatility and increased analyst forecast accuracy.

Suggested Citation:

Chapman, Kimball and Reiter, Nayana and White, Hal D. and Williams, Christopher D., Information Overload and Disclosure Smoothing (May 31, 2019). Review of Accounting Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3001322
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
The effect of aggregating accounting reports on the quality of the lending decision: An empirical investigation
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 104 - 138 Posted: 1973
Crossref
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
C Anilowski , M Feng , D J Skinner
Does earnings guidance affect market returns? The nature and information content of aggregate earnings guidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Beyer , D A Cohen , T Z Lys , B R Walther
The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
21 Citations
Tim Martens
The disclosure function of the U.S. patent system: evidence from the PTDL program and extreme snowfall
Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming · 36 Pages · Posted: 19 Apr 2019 · Last revised: 3 Sep 2021 · Downloads: 236
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Emmanuel T. De George , Minh Phan , Robert Stoumbos
Negative Externalities of Financial Reporting Frequency: Peer Reporting Choice and the Loss of Investor Attention
University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3433828 · 58 Pages · Posted: 12 Aug 2019 · Last revised: 22 Dec 2019 · Downloads: 659
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Elizabeth Blankespoor , Ed deHaan , Ivan Marinovic
Disclosure Processing Costs, Investors’ Information Choice, and Equity Market Outcomes: A Review
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming · 124 Pages · Posted: 20 Sep 2019 · Last revised: 15 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 2,719
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Badryah Alhusaini , Bradley E. Hendricks , Wayne R. Landsman
<div> Beyond fundamentals: <span>Accounting information and the pricing of Unicorn IPOs</span> </div> <div> <br> </div>
55 Pages · Posted: 5 Sep 2020 · Last revised: 4 Sep 2025 · Downloads: 667
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,797
RANK
232,476
21 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies