Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Ability and Bank-Loan Pricing

Forthcoming, Journal of Business Finance and Accounting

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3001882

46 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2017

Gus De Franco

Purdue University

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Haihao Lu

University of Waterloo

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 13, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of borrowers’ managerial ability on lenders’ bank-loan pricing and the channels through which managerial ability affects bank-loan pricing. Using a large sample of U.S. bank loans, we provide evidence that higher managerial ability is associated with lower bank-loan prices. This effect is stronger in firms with high information risk, suggesting that an important channel for managerial ability to affect bank-loan pricing is through improved financial disclosure to mitigate information asymmetry. The relation is also stronger for firms with weak business fundamentals, implying that another channel is through improved business performance. Of these two mechanisms, path analysis suggests that the business-fundamentals mechanism is the more important channel through which managerial ability affects bank-loan pricing.

Keywords: Managerial ability, bank-loan pricing, fundamentals, disclosure, path analysis

JEL Classification: G30, G31, G32, G34, M10, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

De Franco, Gus and Hope, Ole-Kristian and Lu, Haihao, Managerial Ability and Bank-Loan Pricing (July 13, 2017). Forthcoming, Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3001882, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3001882
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
S P Kothari , J Andrew , Charles E Leone , Wasley
Performance Matched Discretionary Accrual Measures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 163 - 97 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Leverty , Martin F Tyler , Grace
Dupes or Incompetents? An Examination of Management's Impact on Firm Distress
Journal of Risk and Insurance , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 751 - 783 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Siqi Li
Does Mandatory Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards in the European Union Reduce the Cost of Equity Capital?
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 2 , p. 607 - 643 Posted: 2010
Crossref
* , * * , ***
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,874
RANK
138,996
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies