Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Environmental Performance, Foreign Ownership and Leverage to Disclosure of Corporate Social Responsibility (Study on Manufacturing Companies in Indonesia Stock Exchange)

Global Journal of Business and Social Science Review, Vol. 3(2), p. 8-13, 2015

6 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2017

Musfialdy

State Islamic University of Sultan Syarif Kasim Riau

Enni Savitri

University of Riau

Date Written: April 26, 2015

Abstract

Objective - The purpose of this study is to examine the effect of environmental performance, foreign ownership and leverage to disclosure of corporate social responsibility (CSR).

Methodology/Technique - CSR of disclosure in this study using performance indicators based GRI (Global Reporting Initiatives). Data collection using purposive sampling method on manufacturing companies in Indonesia stock exchange in 2011 through 2013, there were 85 companies in the sample. Data were analyzed by multiple linear regression method.

Findings - The result shows that the environmental performance and leverage affect on disclosure of corporate social responsibility, while foreign ownership doesn’t affect on disclosure of corporate social responsibility.

Novelty - This study adds to the variable debt and foreign ownership.

Type of Paper - Empirical

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Environmental Performance, Foreign Ownership and Leverage

JEL Classification: M14

Suggested Citation:

Musfialdy, Musfialdy and Savitri, Enni, The Effect of Environmental Performance, Foreign Ownership and Leverage to Disclosure of Corporate Social Responsibility (Study on Manufacturing Companies in Indonesia Stock Exchange) (April 26, 2015). Global Journal of Business and Social Science Review, Vol. 3(2), p. 8-13, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3001765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Komang Adnantara , Fridagustin
Effect of Shareholding Structure and Corporate Social Responsibility in Corporate Value
Journal of Economic Bulletin , volume 2 Posted: 2013
Aditya Permana , Vigiwan , S Prog , T Christensen , K E Hughes
Effect of Corporate Environmental Performance And Characteristics Of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Disclosure (Empirical Study On Manufacturing Companies Listed on the Stock Exchange)
Organizations and Society , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
Ageng Anugrah , Widhy , Yuyetta
Analysis of Effect of Environmental Performance, Structure Corporate Governance, Disclosure and Earnings Management Of Corporate Social Responsibility
Journal. Faculty of Economics Posted: 2010
Phillip Ballabanis , Lyall
Corporate Social Responsibility and Economic Performance in the Top British Companies: Are they Linked
Europan Business Review , volume 98 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 44 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,105
RANK
662,989
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies