Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Speak Out Your Risk Dialectal Effects on Merger Decisions

Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2017 Last revised: 20 Feb 2020

Yang Jiao

Texas A&M University - Texas A&M University, Texarkana; Texas A&M University - Texarkana

Xi Rao

Chongqing University

Shijun Guo

Chongqing University; University of Queensland

Yaseen Alhaj-Yaseen

University of Findlay

Date Written: February 21, 2018

Abstract

The “biological code” of a language can be measured by tone patterns and pitch heights, which are recognized to foster and promote certain personal traits like self-confidence and risk tolerance. Guided by linguistic and financial research, this study examines the impact of Chinese dialects on CEOs’ merger decisions. We hypothesize that CEOs in China who speak different dialects may have different tendencies to engage in risky activities, like mergers and acquisitions (M&As). Results suggest that CEOs who speak dialects with fewer rising tones and higher pitch are more likely to undertake M&As, while CEOs who speak dialects with more rising tones and lower pitch are less likely to undertake M&As. The results are robust to various specifications, including the impact of local economic and regional cultural factors. Additionally, firms’ performances after M&As are evaluated. The results suggest that CEOs’ overconfidence and high-risk tolerance are likely to cause M&As to be less successful in the long run.

Keywords: language; dialect; mergers and acquisitions; risk-taking behavior

JEL Classification: G31, G34, Z13

Suggested Citation:

Jiao, Yang and Rao, Xi and Guo, Shijun and Alhaj-Yaseen, Yaseen, Speak Out Your Risk Dialectal Effects on Merger Decisions (February 21, 2018). Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3002389 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3002389
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Randy Beavers
What Matters Most in CEO Compensation?
Corporate Board: Role, Duties and Composition, 14(3), 23-45, 2018, http://doi.org/10.22495/cbv14i3art3 · 24 Pages · Posted: 13 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 52
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,191
RANK
527,931
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies