Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of CSR on Transnational & Multinational Corporations in Bangladesh: A Comparative Analysis on the Basis of Carrols's Pyramid Regarding Global Perspective

Review of Integrative Business and Economics Research, Vol. 6, Issue 4

25 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2017

Tapos Kumar

financeideas.org; Shanto-Mariam University of Creative Technology; SMUCT

Date Written: July 14, 2017

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to examine and compare how CSR is perceived by Transnational & Multinational corporations through globally as well as in Bangladesh. The study additionally describes and provide an explanation for the challenges that each corporation could face and the responsibilities that they are anticipated to fulfill through conceptualizing CSR idea of MNC & TNC. In order to examine the impact of CSR on TNC & MNC in Bangladesh, 34 managers are selected from 2 corporations. A set of open-minded questionnaire was developed on the basis of interviews with managers who deal with CSR problems and procedure and an evaluation of published reports equivalent to annual reviews of consecutive years. Findings reveal that both corporations define the notion of CSR similar, namely what organizations do, how they do it and the impact of their behavior on society at large. All of them infer that CSR reflects appearing as an excellent corporate citizen, being moral, obeying the law and being moneymaking.

Keywords: CSR, Carroll pyramid, transnational corporations, multinational corporations

JEL Classification: M14, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kumar, Tapos, The Impact of CSR on Transnational & Multinational Corporations in Bangladesh: A Comparative Analysis on the Basis of Carrols's Pyramid Regarding Global Perspective (July 14, 2017). Review of Integrative Business and Economics Research, Vol. 6, Issue 4 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3002282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,209
RANK
601,090
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies