Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consolidating Product Lines via Mergers and Acquisitions: Evidence from the USPTO Trademark Data

62 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2017 Last revised: 5 May 2021

Po-Hsuan Hsu

National Tsing Hua University - Department of Quantitative Finance; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER)

Kai Li

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business; Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER); China Academy of Financial Research (CAFR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Canadian Sustainable Finance Network (CSFN)

Xing Liu

Tsinghua University - PBC School of Finance

Hong Wu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 5, 2021

Abstract

Using a new trademark-based product market competition measure and a novel trademark-merger dataset over the period 1983-2016, we show that companies facing greater product market competition are more likely to be acquirers. We further show that postmerger, compared to their non-acquiring peers, acquirers consolidate their product offerings by discontinuing more existing product lines and developing fewer new product lines. Using a quasi-experiment based on bids withdrawn due to exogenous reasons helps us establish the causal effect of deal completion on product market consolidation. We conclude that acquisitions create product market synergies by cutting overlapping product offerings to achieve cost efficiency.

Keywords: trademarks; product lines; mergers and acquisitions; product market competition; cost efficiency

JEL Classification: G34, O32, O34

Suggested Citation:

Hsu, Po-Hsuan and Li, Kai and Liu, Xing and Wu, Hong, Consolidating Product Lines via Mergers and Acquisitions: Evidence from the USPTO Trademark Data (May 5, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3002520 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3002520
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Report of the Economic Survey
AIPLA Posted: 2015
Gregor Andrade , Mark Mitchell , Erik Stafford
New evidence and perspectives on mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Diego Aparicio , Zachary Metzman , Roberto Rigobon
The pricing strategies of online grocery retailers Posted: 2021
Crossref
Orley Ashenfelter , Daniel Hosken
The effect of mergers on consumer prices: Evidence from five mergers on the enforcement margin
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 53 , p. 417 - 466 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
435
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,609
RANK
153,132
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies