Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Good Corporate Governance for Corporate Value in Plantation Companies at Indonesian Stock Exchange (IDX)

Global Journal of Business & Social Science Review, Vol.5(2), p. 64-69, 2017

6 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2017 Last revised: 23 Jul 2017

Yefni

Caltex Polytechnic of Riau

Atika Zarefar

Caltex Polytechnic of Riau

Arumega Zarefar

Universitas Riau - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 19, 2017

Abstract

Objective – This research aims to identify the effect of good corporate governance (‘GCG’) factors such as the size of the board, the presence of independent commissioners and audit committees, managerial ownership, and institutional ownership on corporate value (price to book value). This study also uses profitability measured by Return on Assets (‘ROA’) as moderating variables.

Methodology/Technique – The object of this study is plantation companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange (IDX) between 2011 to 2015. The samples are selected by using purposive sampling method. The hypothesis in this study is tested by using multiple linear regression.

Findings – There are three variables that significantly influence corporate value. These are independent commissioners, managerial ownership, and institutional ownership. Moreover, profitability does not moderate the relationship between GCG and company value.

Novelty – The research is intended to find a relationship between good corporate governance and firm performance among plantation companies.

Keywords: Audit Committee; Corporate Values; Good Corporate Governance; Independent Commissioner; Institutional Ownership; Managerial Ownership; Price to Book Value; Return on Assets

JEL Classification: G31, L25, M41

Suggested Citation:

, Yefni and Zarefar, Atika and Zarefar, Arumega, The Effects of Good Corporate Governance for Corporate Value in Plantation Companies at Indonesian Stock Exchange (IDX) (April 19, 2017). Global Journal of Business & Social Science Review, Vol.5(2), p. 64-69, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3002426
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
A Cadbury
The Financial Aspects of Corporate Governance. The Committee on the Financial Aspects of Corporate Governance , volume 85258 , p. 913 - 914 Posted: 1992
D H Chew , S L Gillan
Corporate Governance at the Crossroads Posted: 2005
K M Eisenhardt
Agency theory: An assessment and review , volume 14 , p. 57 - 74 Posted: 1989
Crossref
S Finkelstein , D C Hambrick
Review: Strategic leadership: Top executives and their effects on organizations
Australian Journal of Management Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
939
RANK
427,290
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies