Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Corruption and Economic Prosperity

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming

33 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2017 Last revised: 27 Aug 2017

Eli Amir

Tel Aviv University

Shai Danziger

Coller School of Management, Tel-Aviv University

Shai Levi

Tel Aviv University

Date Written: August 26, 2017

Abstract

Prior literature shows government corruption mostly hurts poorer economies, whereas recent events, including the 2008 US economic crisis, suggest business corruption may harm growth in wealthier economies. Using multi-national surveys in which citizens communicated their perceptions of corruption levels for both the private and the public sectors, we examine the extent of business corruption relative to government corruption in countries, and its relation to economic prosperity. We find that citizens of wealthier countries report higher business corruption than citizens of poor countries, and relatively lower government corruption. Business corruption is evidently a greater concern to citizens of wealthier countries. Furthermore, we find that an increase in perceived business corruption is associated with a decrease in income per capita mainly in wealthy countries. In wealthier economies, business trust has a larger role, and perceived business corruption has a stronger effect on growth. Finally, our evidence suggests an increase in perceived business corruption leads to increase in regulation, and the marginal effect of the regulation on growth is positive.

Keywords: Business corruption, economic prosperity, corruption perceptions, regulation

Suggested Citation:

Amir, Eli and Danziger, Shai and Levi, Shai, Business Corruption and Economic Prosperity (August 26, 2017). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3002227 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3002227
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
A Ades , R Di Tella
Rents, Competition, and Corruption
American Economic Review , volume 89 , issue 4 , p. 982 - 993 Posted: 1999
Crossref
P Aghion , Y Algan , P Cahuc , A Shleifer
Regulation and Distrust
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 125 , issue 3 , p. 1015 - 1049 Posted: 2010
Crossref
G Akerlof , R Shiller
Phishing for Phools Posted: 2015
A Barr , D Serra
Corruption and Culture: An Experimental Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 94 , p. 862 - 869 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Marco Ghitti , Noga Shimon , Eli Amir
<p><b><span>Audit Fees and Corruption:</span></b></p> <p><b><span>An International Analysis of Audit Rates and Audit Hours</span></b></p>
46 Pages · Posted: 31 Jan 2025 · Last revised: 24 May 2025 · Downloads: 49
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,117
RANK
580,030
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Welfare Economics & Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies