Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Entry Barriers and Firms' Risk Taking

Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 17-024

63 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2018 Last revised: 31 Oct 2024

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Mahsa Kaviani

University of Delaware

Hosein Maleki

Rutgers Business School - Rutgers University

Date Written: September 19, 2024

Abstract

We study how non-financial firms' operating risks change after bank competition increases. By exploiting the 1990s staggered regulatory reforms across U.S. states that allowed interstate banking and branching, we show that out-of-state bank entry was associated with lower borrower risk taking on average. Large, profitable, safe, and geographically diversified firms signed up as new clients of large entrant banks, which offered larger and cheaper loans that reflected their higher efficiency and risk reduction through geographical diversification. We argue that these large banks could substitute for local relationship lending with more data collection from branches in multiple states. Firms that began borrowing from entrant banks increased capital expenditures and project-specific financing, kept R&D expenses stable, but reduced R&D risk. Firms that continued borrowing from incumbent banks paid higher interest rates and increased their risk, suggesting that their credit access fell. States that opened up more had bigger changes in these outcomes.

Keywords: barriers to entry, bank competition, corporate risk taking, assortative matching, operational risk JEL classification: G21, G28, G32

JEL Classification: G28, G32, G21

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Sudipta and Kaviani, Mahsa and Maleki, Hosein, Bank Entry Barriers and Firms' Risk Taking (September 19, 2024). Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 17-024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3002895 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3002895
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
S Agarwal , G Amromin , I Ben-David , S Chomsisengphet , D D Evanoff
Predatory lending and the subprime crisis
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 113 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 52 Posted: 2014
M D Amore , C Schneider , A Žaldokas
Credit supply and corporate innovation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 835 - 855 Posted: 2013
L L Bargeron , K M Lehn , C J Zutter
Sarbanes-Oxley and corporate risk-taking
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue 1-2 , p. 34 - 52 Posted: 2010
J M Barrios
Staggeringly problematic: a primer on staggered DiD for accounting researchers Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
689
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,513
RANK
86,364
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies