Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Convoluted Ownership Structure in Accounting and Finance: A Succinct Survey

32 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2017 Last revised: 5 Sep 2017

Chi Keung Man

University of Aberdeen

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 17, 2013

Abstract

Corporate governance can be old cliché as internal and external types. Internal corporate governance is the mechanism by which firms’ governing managers align their activities with stakeholder interests through the composition of the board, audit committees, and compensation committees as well as the ownership structure. External corporate governance occurs overweightingly and dominantly through mechanisms, such as legal protections and takeovers imposed by the capital market, that are external to the firm that protects stakeholder interests. Since the scope of corporate governance is too broad to address here, this article examines only its ownership structure dimension and its impact on firm performance, cost of capital, dividend policy, disclosure, and conservatism. Researchers have been investigating these issues for decades, with gobsmacking inconclusive results. Recent papers have provided new insights by which we may examine the issues in more detail. For instance, Chen et al. (2012) suggest that family CEOs in family firms produce less turnover and lower share returns than do non-family CEOs in family firms, leading to the temeritous question of whether the chairperson and CEO governance functions should be separated and pointing to future research into whether family firms with family CEOs generate lower or higher earnings. Haw et al. (2012), concerning conservatism, investigates whether the second largest shareholders in firms with multiple shareholdings and a cash flow right dispersion can shape conservatism in financial statements. They argue that the dispersion of cash flow rights for multiple shareholders creates monitoring problems for firms, leading to the agency problem and increasingly conservative accounting in financial statements. Studies have shown that managerial incentives to adopt highly conservative accounting include taxation, debts covenants, and regulations. Whilst this paper attempts to demonstrate the impact of ownership structure on conservatism, future research should carefully but not pedantically investigate this issue in more detail.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Financial Turmoil

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Man, Chi Keung, International Convoluted Ownership Structure in Accounting and Finance: A Succinct Survey (January 17, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3003710 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3003710
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
182 References
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
Corporate governance and the cost of equity capital
Social Science Research Network) Posted: 2004-12
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
Crossref
P Asquith , A Beatty , J Weber
Performance pricing in private debt contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2006
Crossref
V Avizian , L Booth , S Cleary
Dividend policy and Organization of Capital Markets?
Journal of Multinational Financial Management , volume 13 , p. 101 - 121 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,147
RANK
274,044
182 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies