Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Characteristics and Valuation: Inferences from Quantile Regression

Journal of Economics, Finance and Administrative Science, Volume 21, Issue 41, p. 81-88, December 2016

8 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2017

Fekri Ali Shawtari

Universiti Kuala Lumpur Business School

Milad Salem

Ahmed Bin Mohammed Military College

Hafezali Iqbal-Hussain

Taylor's University; University of Hull

Omar Alaeddin

Universiti Kuala Lumpur Business School

Abdullah Omer

Comsats University Islamabad

Date Written: December 2016

Abstract

Prior literature on corporate governance and performance provides mixed evidence on the impact of various corporate governance measures on performance indicators. However, most of literatures adopt the Ordinary Least Square (OLS). This method is based on the central tendency, which may not appropriately represent the reality in cases where the dependent variable ranges between upper and lower values and hence the relationship may not be homogenous across different percentiles of the dependent variables. A variable having a positive impact based on the central tendency for firms may not be the case for the firms in the upper or lower bounds. Thus, estimating the means using OLS may not reflect and represent the heterogeneity in the estimated relationship. Therefore, quantile regression estimates the relationship at any point conditional on the distribution of dependent variable. This would enable us to generate various estimated coefficient at certain quantile of dependent variable. Therefore, the objective of the study is twofold. First, this study aims to investigate the relationship between corporate governance and performance using OLS. Second, this work further explores the impact of corporate governance mechanisms on performance using quantile regression so as to compare and to shed light on whether there is heterogeneity in the influence of these variables on the performance of listed companies across quantiles. The results of the study provide evidence that quantile approach shows inconsistency in the result with OLS and hence indicating the impact depends on the scale size. This theoretically provides further support that OLS may represent a poor estimation approach for the reality of firms.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, OLS, Quantile Regression

JEL Classification: G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Shawtari, Fekri Ali and Salem, Milad and Iqbal-Hussain, Hafezali and Alaeddin, Omar and Omer, Abdullah, Corporate Governance Characteristics and Valuation: Inferences from Quantile Regression (December 2016). Journal of Economics, Finance and Administrative Science, Volume 21, Issue 41, p. 81-88, December 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3004037
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Abdul Rahman , R Haniffa , R M
The effect of role duality on corporate performance in Malaysia
Corporate ownership and control , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 40 - 47 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Renée B. Adams , Hamid Mehran
Corporate Performance, Board Structure, and Their Determinants in the Banking Industry
FRB of New York Staff Report No. 330 Pages: 43 Posted: 25 Jun 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ahmed Haji , A
The relationship between corporate governance attributes and firm performance before and after the revised code: Some Malaysian evidence
International Journal of Commerce and Management , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 134 - 151 Posted: 2014
Ahmed Haji , A Mubaraq , S
The implications of the revised code of corporate governance on firm performance: A longitudinal examination of Malaysian listed companies
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 350 - 380 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,241
RANK
826,677
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies