Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inside the Board Room: Nationality, Cultural Diversity and Cross-Border Merger Outcomes

61 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2017

Jian Cao

Florida Atlantic University

Kimberly Ellis

Florida Atlantic University

Mingxiang Li

Florida Atlantic University

Date Written: July 18, 2017

Abstract

In recent years, an increase in the number of foreign directors on corporate boards of large multinational corporations has seemingly gone hand in hand with significant growth in cross-border merger (CBM) activity. We analyze the influence of internationalization of the board of directors on announcement returns and post-merger performance of U.S. acquirers. In a sample of completed CBMs by U.S. corporations between 1996 and 2013, we find a negative association between the presence of foreign directors on the board and CBM announcement returns and post-merger operating performance. This negative relationship is driven mainly by directors from countries with greater cultural distance relative to the United States. Furthermore, the negative effect of foreign directors in connection with culture diversity on merger performance is more pronounced in diversifying, high-tech CBMs. The negative association remains when the directors are domiciled in the country where a merger takes place. However, their presence contributes to lower bid premiums, reflecting some beneﬁts from their local expertise. Finally, such negative impact is mitigated by the gender diversity of the acquiring firm’s corporate board, which suggests a more inclusive tone helps to reduce potential cultural conﬂicts inside the board room.

Keywords: foreign directors; cross-border mergers; cultural diversity; cultural distance; board diversity

JEL Classification: G34, M14, Z1

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Jian and Ellis, Kimberly and Li, Mingxiang, Inside the Board Room: Nationality, Cultural Diversity and Cross-Border Merger Outcomes (July 18, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3004818 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3004818
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,450
RANK
456,571
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies