Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Committees and Implied Cost of Equity Capital: Evidence from the GCC

International Review of Finance, Forthcoming

Posted: 24 Jul 2017

Ahmed Al-Hadi

Sultan Qaboos University - Accounting; Curtin University - School of Accounting; Sultan Qaboos University - College of Economics & Political Science

Khamis Al-Yahyaee

Sultan Qaboos University; Economic Research Forum

Syed Mujahid Hussain

Independent

Hamdan Al-Jabri

Sultan Qaboos University

Date Written: July 19, 2017

Abstract

We investigate the association between the existence of the risk committee and the implied cost of equity capital in a unique institutional setting where the formation of the board risk committee as part of the risk governance mechanism is not mandatory in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) financial institutions. Using data from the six GCC countries. We find that implied cost of equity capital is negatively associated with the existence of board risk committee. These findings indicate that GCC financial firms with better risk governance practices at board level have lower implied cost of equity capital. We contribute to the extant literature on board risk governance in emerging markets context.

Keywords: Risk Committee, Implied Cost of Equity Capital, GCC

JEL Classification: G22; G30; G31; G32

Suggested Citation:

Al-Hadi, Ahmed and Al-Yahyaee, Khamis and Hussain, Syed Mujahid and Al-Jabri, Hamdan, Risk Committees and Implied Cost of Equity Capital: Evidence from the GCC (July 19, 2017). International Review of Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3005409
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,140
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies