Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Private Benefits of Control on Minority Shareholders: A Theoretical Model and Empirical Evidence from State Ownership

International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research, Vol. 10(2), p. 26-34, June 2017

10 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2017

Kerry RT Liu

Independent

Date Written: May 1, 2017

Abstract

Purpose: The purpose of this paper is to examine the effect of private benefits of control on minority shareholders.

Design/methodology/approach: A theoretical model is established. The empirical analysis includes hand-collected data from a wide range of data sources. OLS and 2SLS regression analysis are applied with Huber-White standard errors.

Findings: The theoretical model shows that, while private benefits are generally harmful to minority shareholders, the overall effect depends on the size of large shareholder ownership. The empirical evidence from government ownership is consistent with theoretical analysis.

Research limitations/implications: The empirical evidence is based on a small number of hand-collected data sets of government ownership. Further studies can be expanded to other types of ownership, such as family ownership and financial institutional ownership.

Originality/value: This study is the first to theoretically analyse and empirically test the effect of private benefits. In general, this study significantly contributes to the understanding of the effect of large shareholder and corporate governance.

Keywords: Private Benefits of Control, Minority Shareholder, Large Shareholder, State Ownership

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Kerry RT, The Effect of Private Benefits of Control on Minority Shareholders: A Theoretical Model and Empirical Evidence from State Ownership (May 1, 2017). International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research, Vol. 10(2), p. 26-34, June 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3007514
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
P Aghion , P Bolton
An Incomplete Contracts Approach to Financial Contracting
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992-07
Crossref
Rui Albuquerque , E Schroth
Quantifying private benefits of control from a structural model of block trades
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 96 , p. 33 - 55 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M J Barclay , C G Holderness
Private benefits from control of public corporations
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 395 Posted: 1989
Crossref
S Claessens , S Djankov , L H Lang
The separation of ownership and control in East Asian corporations'
Journal of financial Economics , volume 58 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 112 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,105
RANK
889,053
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies