Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Online Appendix for: Management of Reported and Forecast EPS, Investor Responses, and Research Implications

Management Science, Forthcoming

11 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2017

Foong Soon Cheong

Nanyang Technological University (NTU) - Division of Accounting

Jacob K. Thomas

Yale School of Management

Date Written: March 27, 2017

Abstract

This is the Online Appendix for: Management of reported and forecast EPS, investor responses, and research implications (Management Science, Forthcoming).

We provide here additional results relating to four issues discussed in the main paper:

a) robustness analysis regarding prediction P3.2, which compares the use of accruals by US and Japanese firms to smooth reported EPS;

b) robustness analysis regarding prediction P3.3, which compares ERC or investor responses to forecast errors for US and Japanese firms;

c) an extension of the analyses in Table 5 of the main paper, relating to replications of Thomas (2002); and

d) descriptive results relating to scale variation in the first moment of forecast error distributions, referred to as CT#1.

While we present results for all four analyses, we provide no discussion for the third issue, as it is fully described in the main paper.

Keywords: EPS forecast errors, earnings management, forecast guidance, scale deflation, and earnings response coefficients

JEL Classification: G14, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cheong, Foong Soon and Thomas, Jacob, Online Appendix for: Management of Reported and Forecast EPS, Investor Responses, and Research Implications (March 27, 2017). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3007209
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,288
RANK
864,457
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies