Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Affecting Dividend Policy on Non-Financial Companies in Indonesia

Accounting and Finance Review (AFR) Vol. 2(3) 2017, 18-25

8 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2017

Novia Wijaya

Trisakti School of Management

Agathon Felix

Trisakti School of Management

Date Written: July 20, 2017

Abstract

Objective – The objective of this study is to obtain empirical evidence and analyse the factors that affect the dividend policy of non-financial firms listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange. The factors studied include liquidity, leverage, growth, price/earnings, size, earnings per share, price to book ratio, ownership, age of the firm, floating rate, profitability, and free cash flow.

Methodology/Technique – The sampling method used in this study is purposive sampling, in which the samples are taken based on suitable characteristics of the population to generate representative samples. The total number of samples in this study are 105 non-financial firms listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange between 2011 and 2015. The hypothesis is tested by using multiple regression analysis.

Findings – The results of this study show that earnings per share, price to book ratio, and floating rate affect the dividends policy while liquidity, leverage, growth, price/earnings, size, ownership, age of the firm, profitability, and free cash flow has no effect on dividend policy.

Novelty – The study findings contribute the companies to establish an appropriate dividend policy to satisfy the interest of both parties that is companies future growth and its investors.

Type of Paper: Empirical.

Keywords: Dividend Policy; Price to Book Ratio; Ownership; Age of the Firm; Floating Rate; Free Cash Flow

JEL Classification: G32, G35, M41

Suggested Citation:

Wijaya, Novia and Felix, Agathon, Factors Affecting Dividend Policy on Non-Financial Companies in Indonesia (July 20, 2017). Accounting and Finance Review (AFR) Vol. 2(3) 2017, 18-25, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3008398
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
H Abdullah , R F Agaki
Pengaruh Earning Per Share, Price Earning Ratio Dan Price to Book Value Terhadap Dividend Payout Ratio Pada Perusahaan Pertambangan Yang Terdaftar Di Bei Periode Posted: 2008
Dinamika Ekonomi-Jurnal Ekonomi dan Bisnis , volume 7 , issue 1
Crossref
G N Ahmad , V K Wardani
The Effect of Fundamental Factor to Dividend Policy: Evidence in Indonesia Stock Exchange
International Journal of Business and Commerce , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 14 - 25 Posted: 2014
T Deitiana
Faktor-Faktor yang Mempengaruhi Kebijakan Pembayaran Dividen Kas [Factors Affecting the Cash Dividend Payment Policy Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,562
RANK
311,489
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies