Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Performance and Tax Avoidance – Disentangling the Effects of Operational and Management Sustainability Performance

41 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2017

Benedikt Bisig

University of Zurich - Department of Business Administration

Katrin Hummel

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: July 25, 2017

Abstract

This paper provides an explanation for the previously mixed findings on the relationship between corporate sustainability performance (CSP) and corporate tax avoidance by disentangling sustainability performance into operational and management sustainability performance. The results from multivariate regression analyses for a sample of 4,449 U.S. firm-year observations reveal a positive relationship between management sustainability performance and tax avoidance and a negative relationship between operational sustainability performance and tax avoidance. The results are robust across the environmental and social dimensions of sustainability and various measures of tax avoidance. Overall, the study provides novel insights into the association between CSP and corporate tax avoidance.

Keywords: operational sustainability performance, management sustainability performance, tax avoidance, effective tax rate, discretionary permanent book-tax differences

JEL Classification: M14, M41, H20

Suggested Citation:

Bisig, Benedikt and Hummel, Katrin, Sustainability Performance and Tax Avoidance – Disentangling the Effects of Operational and Management Sustainability Performance (July 25, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3008672 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3008672
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
454
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,232
RANK
145,642
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies