Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Organizational Profitability: Empirical Evidence from Quoted Natural Resources Firms in Nigeria (2010-2015)

Proceedings of Faculty of Management Sciences' 2016 International Conference, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka

16 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2017 Last revised: 10 Sep 2017

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Obi Chinyere

University of Nigeria Enugu Campus

Uche Egolum

Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka

Racheal Iliemena

Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka

Date Written: November 8, 2016

Abstract

Following the prominent accounting scandals and fraudulent financial reporting, the emphasis on the need for corporate governance sprung up to improve organizational profitability. The general objective of this study is to determine the relationship between corporate governance and organizational profitability with a focus on quoted natural resources firms in Nigeria from 2010-2015. Three specific objectives were derived also. The study is anchored on stakeholder, stewardship and agency theories. Three research questions and three hypotheses were formulated in line with the specific objectives. In pursuance of the objectives of the study, ex-post facto research design was adopted. The study worked with a sample size of five companies using panel sampling method. This study made use of secondary data obtained from the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) fact book and annual reports and accounts. The relevant data were subjected to statistical analysis using Pearson coefficient of correlation, multiple regression analysis and heteroskedasticity test. The result of this study reveals that there is a positive and significant relationship between corporate governance and organizational profitability. The results reveal that board size, audit committee independence and board ownership have a significant relationship with Return on Equity, Return on Assets and Profit Margin of quoted natural resources firms in Nigeria.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Profitability and Audit Committee Independence

JEL Classification: M15, M24, M33

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor and Obi, Juliet and Egolum, Uche and Iliemena, Rachael, Corporate Governance and Organizational Profitability: Empirical Evidence from Quoted Natural Resources Firms in Nigeria (2010-2015) (November 8, 2016). Proceedings of Faculty of Management Sciences' 2016 International Conference, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3008656
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
774
RANK
461,853
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies