Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Horizontal Mergers on Market Structure: Evidence from the Semiconductor Industry

Posted: 27 Jul 2017

Ralph Siebert

Purdue University; CESifo

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 24, 2017

Abstract

The U.S. and EU Merger Guidelines strongly emphasize the relevance of the ease of entry argument in merger evaluations. Up to now, very little is known empirically about how mergers affect the resulting number of firms in the markets. We empirically test this aspect of mergers using a comprehensive database that contains detailed firm-level information on mergers, production, and innovation in the dynamic random access memory semiconductor market from 1985 to 2004. Our reduced-form regression results show that mergers dominated by efficiency effects have a negative impact on the number of firms in the product market. Mergers dominated by market power effects result in a higher number of firms than efficiency dominated mergers. Interestingly, we also find that mergers foreclose potential entry in other product markets and reduce the number of firms in related product markets. Finally, our results confirm that post-merger changes in the equilibrium number of firms directly impact market prices.

Keywords: Competitive Effects, Entry, Foreclosure, Horizontal Mergers, Market Structure

JEL Classification: L11, L13, L52, O31, O32, O38

Suggested Citation:

Siebert, Ralph, The Impact of Horizontal Mergers on Market Structure: Evidence from the Semiconductor Industry (July 24, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3008085
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,129
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies