Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Women Involved in the Financial Reporting Process and Financial Reporting Quality

38 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2017

Isabelle Allemand

Université de Bourgogne - Burgundy School of Business

Paul André

University of Bristol Business School

Benedicte Brullebaut

Université de Bourgogne - Burgundy School of Business

Alain Schatt

University of Lausanne, HEC-Lausanne

Date Written: July 26, 2017

Abstract

We examine how the presence of women involved in the financial reporting process of public companies, and especially the interactions between them (i.e. the simultaneous presence of a woman CFO, women sitting on the audit committee, and women auditors), impacts financial reporting quality. For our sample of large French companies, we find that women do not affect financial reporting quality when interactions are not considered. However, the interactions between women involved in the financial reporting are associated with lower discretionary accruals and higher C-scores (our measure of conservatism), as expected because women are generally more risk averse and have greater ethical sensitivity. Furthermore, our result holds only for non-family firms, which is also expected because there is a greater demand for earnings quality in such firms. In addition, it appears that woman CFOs play a key role in these interactions. Overall, our results support the idea that women affect positively financial reporting quality only if several women are involved at various stages of the financial reporting process and only in specific contexts (i.e. non-family firms). These new results should be of great interest for researchers, investors and regulators.

Keywords: Financial reporting, Women, CFO, Audit committee, External auditor, Family firms, France

JEL Classification: M14, M40, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Allemand, Isabelle and Andre, Paul and Brullebaut, Benedicte and Schatt, Alain, Women Involved in the Financial Reporting Process and Financial Reporting Quality (July 26, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3009375 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3009375
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
A K Achleitner , N Günther , C Kaserer , G Siciliano
Real Earnings Management and Accrual-based Earnings Management in Family Firms
European Accounting Review , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 431 - 461 Posted: 2014
Crossref
R B Adams , P Funk
Beyond the Glass Ceiling: Does Gender Matter? Management Science , volume 58 , p. 219 - 235 Posted: 2012
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , T J Presley
Female Board Presence and the Likelihood of Financial Restatement
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 607 - 629 Posted: 2012
Crossref
P André , G Broye , C Pong , A Schatt
Are joint audits associated with higher audit fees?
European Accounting Review , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 274 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,035
RANK
349,044
2 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies