Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Firms Strategically Disseminate? Evidence from Corporate Use of Social Media

The Accounting Review, July 2018, Vol. 93, No. 4, pp. 225-252.

59 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2017 Last revised: 8 Aug 2018

Michael J. Jung

University of Delaware - Alfred Lerner College of Business and Economics

James P. Naughton

University of Virginia, Darden School of Business

Ahmed Tahoun

London Business School

Clare Wang

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 1, 2018

Abstract

We examine whether firms use social media to strategically disseminate financial information. Analyzing S&P 1500 firms’ use of Twitter to disseminate quarterly earnings announcements, we find that firms are less likely to disseminate when the news is bad and when the magnitude of the bad news is worse, consistent with strategic behavior. Furthermore, firms tend to send fewer earnings announcement tweets and “rehash” tweets when the news is bad. Cross-sectional analyses suggest incentives for strategic dissemination are higher for firms with a lower level of investor sophistication and firms with a larger social media audience. We also find that strategic dissemination behavior is detectable in high litigation risk firms but not low litigation risk firms. Finally, we find that the tweeting of bad news and the subsequent retweeting of that news by a firm’s followers are associated with more negative news articles written about the firm by the traditional media, highlighting a potential downside to Twitter dissemination.

Keywords: Twitter, social media, strategic dissemination, strategic disclosure

JEL Classification: G14, G38, M10, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jung, Michael J. and Naughton, James P. and Tahoun, Ahmed and Wang, Clare, Do Firms Strategically Disseminate? Evidence from Corporate Use of Social Media (July 1, 2018). The Accounting Review, July 2018, Vol. 93, No. 4, pp. 225-252., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3009374
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock options awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , K M Johnstone , T D Warfield
Corporate reporting on the internet. Accounting Horizons , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 241 - 257 Posted: 1999
Crossref
V Bhagwat , T R Burch
Pump it up? Tweeting to manage investor attention to earnings news. Working paper Posted: 2016
L S Bamber , Y S Cheon
Discretionary management earnings forecast disclosures: Antecedents and outcomes associated with forecast venue and forecast specificity choices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 190 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
840
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,609
RANK
10,098
2 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies