Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Leadership and Organizational Structure on the Quality of Accounting Information System

Accounting and Finance Review (AFR) Vol. 2(3) 2017. 58-63

6 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2017

Rapina

Maranatha Christian University

Date Written: July 14, 2017

Abstract

Objective – The purpose of this research is to test and find empirical evidences on the effect of leadership and organization structure in the quality of accounting information system.

Methodology/Technique – The analytical units used in this research are state-owned enterprises enlisted in Bandung. The total samples are 49 respondents worked for state-owned enterprises in Bandung. Sample selection is done using purposive sampling method. The hypothesis in this study is tested by using multiple linear regression.

Findings – There are two variables that significantly influence quality of accounting information system. These are leadership and organizational structure.

Novelty – The study looked at the effect of leadership and organizational structure that significantly influence quality of accounting information system.

Type of Paper: Empirical.

Keywords: Leadership; Organizational Structure; AIS; Information System; System

JEL Classification: M15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Rapina, The Influence of Leadership and Organizational Structure on the Quality of Accounting Information System (July 14, 2017). Accounting and Finance Review (AFR) Vol. 2(3) 2017. 58-63, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3010704
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,000
RANK
354,044
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies