Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Firm Strategy to Intervene the Influence of Corporate Social Performance on Corporate Financial Performance

Journal of Finance and Banking Review, Vol. 2(3), p. 21-28, Jul-Sep 2017

8 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2017

Bayu Aprillianto

University of Jember

Yosefa Sayekti

University of Jember

Date Written: July 17, 2017

Abstract

Objective – A Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) implementation has been implemented since over 50 years ago. All of the CSR implementation divided into two categories, namely Strategic CSR and Non-Strategic CSR. A Strategic CSR implementation should consider the firm strategy based on the CSR concept and firm strategy. Some empirical studies have tested the influence of CSR on Corporate Financial Performance. The results of those studies are still inconclusive.

Methodology/Technique – The purpose of this study is to analyze firm strategy as intervening variable between Corporate Social Performance and Corporate Financial Performance. This study used capital intensity and product differentiation to measure the firm strategy. The samples were 33 companies of LQ-45, listed in Indonesian Stock Exchange.

Findings – The results did not indicate that firm strategy intervenes the influence of Corporate Social Performance on Corporate Financial Performance, both directly and indirectly.

Novelty – The research suggests future studies to employ the other ratios representing Firm Strategy that will strengthen the literature.

Type of Paper: Empirical.

Keywords: Corporate Financial Performance; Corporate Social Performance; Firm Strategy; Non-Strategic CSR; Strategic CSR

JEL Classification: L25; M14; M41

Suggested Citation:

Aprillianto, Bayu and Sayekti, Yosefa, The Role of Firm Strategy to Intervene the Influence of Corporate Social Performance on Corporate Financial Performance (July 17, 2017). Journal of Finance and Banking Review, Vol. 2(3), p. 21-28, Jul-Sep 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3010140
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
S L Berman , A C Wicks , S Kotha , T M Jones
Does stakeholder orientation matter? The relationship between stakeholder management models and firm financial performance
Academy of Management journal , volume 42 , issue 5 , p. 488 - 506 Posted: 1999
Crossref
T Donaldson , L E Preston
The stakeholder theory of the corporation: Concepts, evidence, and implications , volume 20 , p. 65 - 91 Posted: 1995
Crossref
R E Freeman
Strategic management: A stakeholder approach Posted: 1984
J Godfrey , A Hodgson , A Tarca , J Hamilton , S Holmes
Accounting theory Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,198
RANK
649,230
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies