Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Do Stakeholders Care About? Investigating Corporate Social and Environmental Disclosure in China

Journal of Business Ethics, Vol. 14, No. 1, pp. 169-184, 2017

49 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2017

Yingjun Lu

Shanghai University of International Business and Economics

Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Ton Duc Thang University

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

This study investigates the social and environmental disclosure practices of socially responsible Chinese listed firms as displayed in their annual reports and corporate social responsibility (CSR) reports from the perspective of stakeholders. A stakeholder-driven, three-dimensional social and environmental disclosure index that integrates the quantity and two aspects of the quality of disclosure perceived by stakeholders is constructed to assess the social and environmental disclosures in firm annual reports and CSR reports. The study results indicate that stakeholders perceive different disclosure types and disclosure items as important to differing degrees. CSR reports provide more stakeholder-relevant social and environmental disclosure than annual reports.

Keywords: China, Corporate Social Responsibility, Social and Environmental Disclosure, Social and Environmental Disclosure Index, Stakeholder

JEL Classification: M14

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Yingjun and Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com), Indra, What Do Stakeholders Care About? Investigating Corporate Social and Environmental Disclosure in China (2017). Journal of Business Ethics, Vol. 14, No. 1, pp. 169-184, 2017 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3011924
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
I Abeysekera
Intellectual capital accounting: Practices in a developing country Posted: 2007
I Abeysekera
Do empirical variables represent expressed theoretical constructs? Secondary analysis of two environmental practice articles as case presentations
Journal of Cleaner Production , volume 15 , p. 7 - 17 Posted: 2014
C A Adams
The ethical, social and environmental reportingperformance portrayal gap
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 17 , issue 5 , p. 731 - 757 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S M Adnan , C Van Staden , D Hay
Do culture and governance structure influence CSR reporting quality: evidence from China, India, Malaysia and the United Kingdom
Proceedings of the 6 th Asia Pacific Interdisciplinary Research in Accounting Conference Posted: 2010
Load more
1 Citations
Isabel Garcia-Sanchez
Corporate Social Reporting and Assurance: The State of the Art
Spanish Accounting Review /Revista de Contabilidad, 2020 · 61 Pages · Posted: 28 May 2020 · Downloads: 444
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,478
RANK
484,103
1 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies