Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Quality under Integrated Reporting: A Value Relevance Approach

Posted: 4 Aug 2017 Last revised: 1 Mar 2019

Alessandro Cortesi

Università Carlo Cattaneo (LIUC)

Luigi Vena

LIUC - Università Cattaneo

Date Written: August 2, 2017

Abstract

In the aftermath of the globalization first and of the financial crises then, the traditional approaches to reporting appeared outdated. In response, the Integrated Report (IR) has been proposed with the aim to increase the transparency, making more clear the interconnections between all areas of the firm business and its performance. Our analysis reveals that the IR actually creates value for investors, as adopting firms are reworded by the market, and increases the value relevance of earnings per share. Our results are robust to the geographical area, the firm dimension and the country legal system, providing new evidences on the efficacy of the IR as well as on the necessity to make it mandatory.

Keywords: Integrated Reporting, Information Quality, Value Relevance, Disclosure Policy

JEL Classification: G14, M14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Cortesi, Alessandro and Vena, Luigi, Disclosure Quality under Integrated Reporting: A Value Relevance Approach (August 2, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3012700 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3012700
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,315
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies