Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Income Inequality: The Role of the Monitoring Board

57 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2017

Ezra Wasserman Mitchell

Shandong University

Date Written: August 2, 2017

Abstract

Does corporate governance play a role in income inequality? If so, how? This paper pursues this inquiry, beginning with an examination of the causes of significant income inequality throughout twentieth and early twenty-first century American history. The parallel developments of financial practices and board structures over these periods reveal the relatively contemporaneous rises of shareholder valuism and the modern monitoring board, with the latter providing institutional structure and norm propagation for the former, thus serving as a corporate governance channel through which income inequality is perpetuated.

History further reveals the monitoring board to be an institutional component of finance capitalism, and the so-called managerial board that dominated during a period of relative income equality to be an institutional component of industrial capitalism.

Keywords: Income Inequality, Directors, Board, Monitoring

Suggested Citation:

Wasserman Mitchell, Ezra, Corporate Governance and Income Inequality: The Role of the Monitoring Board (August 2, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3012406 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3012406
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
George Hornstein noted in 1948 that critiques of boards principally were the province of judges and sociologists. George D. Hornstein, Book Review: The Board of Directors and Business Management
Colum. L. Rev , volume 164 Posted: 1948
Robert A Kessler
The Statutory Requirement of a Board of Directors: A Corporate Anachronism, 27 U. Chi
L. Rev , volume 696 Posted: 1960
Crossref
E G Mortimer , M Caplin
Shareholder Nominations of Directors: A Program for Fair Corporate Sufferage , volume 39
L. Rev Posted: 1953
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
David Crowther , Guler Aras
The Future of Corporate Governance: A Prognosis
CULTURE AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, Guler Aras, David Crowther, eds., Social Responsibility Research Network, UK, 2008 · 14 Pages · Posted: 12 Aug 2011 · Downloads: 151
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,439
RANK
223,562
1 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies