Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Controls the Board in Non-Profit Organizations? The Case of Private Higher Education Institutions in Colombia

Bradford, H., Guzmán, A., Restrepo, J.M., & Trujillo, M.A. (2017). Who controls the board in non-profit organizations? The case of private higher education institutions in Colombia. Higher Education, Forthcoming.

17 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2017

Henry Bradford

CESA School of Business

Alexander Guzmán

CESA School of Business

Jose Manuel Restrepo

Universidad del Rosario

Maria-Andrea Trujillo

CESA School of Business

Date Written: July 7, 2017

Abstract

How should the governance system in a non-membership non-profit organization be designed? This organizational form has no shareholders; instead, donors provide funds. Thus, at the organizational level the board of directors could have all the power. Under this legal form, who controls the board? If too powerful, boards could misuse resources or distract the organization from its foundational goals. We examine the case of private higher education institutions (HEIs) in Colombia and the balance of power in university governance systems which feature this organizational form. Most HEIs in our sample have a kind of assembly of representatives as the governance body with the highest authority and able to appoint and control the board. We specifically discuss the assemblies’ reason for being, structure and functions in private HEIs in Colombia. We analyze a total of 204 HEI governance structures and find governance arrangements with the characteristics of an assembly of representatives in 154 (75.9%). Our analysis highlights features in some of these governance bodies that could lead to overly powerful assemblies (e.g., founder donors with tenure for life). Clearly, a proper balance of power is required to avoid rent-seeking behaviors or the pursuit of harmful private non-monetary benefits from assembly members as well as boards.

Keywords: University governance, balance of power, assemblies, boards, non-profit organizations

JEL Classification: I2, I23, G3, G34

Suggested Citation:

Bradford, Henry and Guzman, Alexander and Restrepo, Jose Manuel and Trujillo, María-Andrea, Who Controls the Board in Non-Profit Organizations? The Case of Private Higher Education Institutions in Colombia (July 7, 2017). Bradford, H., Guzmán, A., Restrepo, J.M., & Trujillo, M.A. (2017). Who controls the board in non-profit organizations? The case of private higher education institutions in Colombia. Higher Education, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3013626
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Agb
Association of Governing Boards of Universities and Colleges Statement on Board Accountability Posted: 2007
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Board composition: Balancing family influence in S&P 500 firms
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 49 , issue 2 , p. 209 - 237 Posted: 2004
N Apostolides
Directors versus Shareholders: evaluating corporate governance in the UK using the AGM scorecard
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 15 , issue 6 , p. 1277 - 1287 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,022
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies