Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Effective Control Systems in Capturing Innovation

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 17-57

53 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2017 Last revised: 12 Nov 2018

Brian P. Miller

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

Amy Sheneman

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Brian Williams

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: November 10, 2018

Abstract

This study examines the role of effective control systems in capturing corporate innovation. Although we expect effective control systems to improve information flows within the firm by allowing managers to better identify and patent their most valuable intellectual property, a priori this relationship is unclear as these same control systems may create an overly restrictive bureaucratic environment that mitigates the benefits of effective controls on innovation. Consistent with our expectation, we find evidence that effective control systems are associated with more innovative capture (i.e., number of patents, patent citations, and weighted citations). Our results are robust to the inclusion of firm fixed effects, remediation tests, entropy balancing, and the use of the market value of patents as an alternative measure of the importance of the innovation. Overall, the results of our study suggest higher quality control systems are positively associated with the ability of a firm to get the most out of its innovative projects.

Keywords: Innovation Capture, Internal Controls, Patents

JEL Classification: M41, O31

Suggested Citation:

Miller, Brian P. and Sheneman, Amy and Williams, Brian, The Role of Effective Control Systems in Capturing Innovation (November 10, 2018). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 17-57, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3013355 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3013355
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Elizabeth A. Gordon , Hsiao-Tang Hsu , Huichi Huang
Peer R&D Disclosure and Corporate Innovation: Evidence from American Depositary Receipt Firms
Advances in Accounting, Forthcoming · 45 Pages · Posted: 16 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 164
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
364
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,671
RANK
187,370
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies