Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Crossover CFO: Accounting with a Sustainability Hat On

Posted: 7 Aug 2017

Delphine Gibassier

Audencia Business School

Claire Garnier

HEC Montreal

Diane-Laure Arjaliès

University of Western Ontario - Managerial Accounting and Control Area Group

Date Written: August 3, 2017

Abstract

Despite the general discourse of the accounting profession (ACCA, IFAC, ICAEW.), its engagement in sustainability has been scarce (Bebbington et al., 1994; Williams et al., 2010; Wilmshurst and Frost, 2001; Kuasirikun, 2005; Zvezdov, 2012). Therefore, we identified a “paradox of expertise” (Nelson and Irwin, 2014) in this profession. It occurs when “a group has existing mastery of a function with close ties to their occupational identity that limits their ability to recognize the value of” new standards (sustainability accounting standards) “that attempt to mimic, alter, improve that function in ways that does not match the group’s current understanding”. However, we also believe that occupational identities are not static and are rather a process, and inherently shifting (Nelson and Irwin, 2014). Therefore, we will explore the moment and reasons why an occupational identity (here that of the accounting profession) is ripe for “renegotiation”, the context in which members’ social constructions of an occupational identity may be renegotiated and altered. More precisely, we will focus on the process through which individuals socially construct expansions and contractions (Kreiner et al. 2015) of the occupational identity of the accounting profession. Indeed, we believe that rendering an occupational identity more “plastic” or enabling “stretchwork” or “boundary spanning” might be the answer to the paradox of expertise identified in the accounting profession.

More precisely, we borrow from the organizational identity literature the concept of “identity elasticity”, defined as “the socially constructed tensions that simultaneously stretch identity while holding it together, akin to the boundaries of a balloon or rubber band expanding and contracting” (Kreiner et al. 2015) to analyze the identity work pursued by the sustainability CFOs we interviewed in changing the occupational identity of the accounting profession. Indeed, Kreiner et al. (2015) encouraged research in individual identity applying the notion of “identity elasticity”, the manifestations of which we will explore in the context of occupational identity.

Our research is based on the methodology of “oral history”, where we interviewed sustainability CFOs on their career and job for 2 hours on average. The phenomenon of “sustainability CFOs” is emerging and we have identified four of them, two of which have been interviewed. The results of this preliminary research will be presented.

Keywords: Occupational Identity, Elasticity, Sustainability, CFO, Sustainability Accounting

JEL Classification: M1, M4, M40

Suggested Citation:

Gibassier, Delphine and Garnier, Claire and Arjaliès, Diane-Laure, The Crossover CFO: Accounting with a Sustainability Hat On (August 3, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3013098
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,134
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies