Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Cash Holdings in Corporate Misconduct

45 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2017

Frank M. Song

The University of Hong Kong - School of Economics and Finance

Zengyuan Sun

Xiamen University - Institute for Financial and Accounting Studies

Date Written: May 3, 2017

Abstract

We test the role of cash holdings in corporate misconduct. Consistent with the agency costs of equity overvaluation, before misconduct, investors overvalue firms’ cash holdings, and firms that commit misconduct accumulate excess cash holdings. Furthermore, consistent with the free cash flow hypothesis, the accumulated excess cash holdings at the beginning of misconduct positively predict firms’ simultaneous misconduct actions, including overinvestment decisions, the delay of bad news disclosures, and insider selling. The association of excess cash holdings with the degree of withholding bad news and insider trading occurs mainly in firms with higher managerial equity-based incentives or firms with internal control weakness. The results suggest that cash holdings are one important mechanism by which equity overvaluation leads to corporate misconduct and emphasize the importance of internal control over financial reporting in safeguarding corporate resources.

Keywords: Agency Costs of Equity Overvaluation, Agency Costs of Free Cash Flow, Excess Cash Holdings, Corporate Misconduct

JEL Classification: M41, G34

Suggested Citation:

Song, Frank M. and Sun, Zengyuan, The Role of Cash Holdings in Corporate Misconduct (May 3, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3014505 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3014505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
A Abadie , G W Imbens
Large sample properties of matching estimators for average treatment effects
Econometrica , volume 74 , p. 235 - 267 Posted: 2006
Crossref
B A Badertscher , S P Hribar , N T Jenkins
Informed trading and the market reaction to accounting restatements
Account. Rev , volume 86 , p. 1519 - 1547 Posted: 2011
Crossref
E Bartov , P Mohanram
Private information, earnings manipulations, and executive stock-option exercises
Account. Rev , volume 79 , p. 889 - 920 Posted: 2004
Crossref
T W Bates , K M Kahle , R M Stulz
Why do U.S. firms hold so much more cash than they used to?
J. Financ , volume 64 , p. 1985 - 2021 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,858
RANK
487,089
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies