Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Boards, Ownership Structures and Corporate Disclosures: Evidence from a Developing Country

Alnabsha, A., Abdou, H., Ntim, C.G., and Elamer, A.A. (2017). Corporate Boards, Ownership Structures and Corporate Disclosures: Evidence from a Developing Country. Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Forthcoming.

44 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2017

Abdalrhman Alnabsha

University of Huddersfield, Business School, Students

Hussein A. Abdou

Northumbria University; Department of Management, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Date Written: August 6, 2017

Abstract

Purpose: This paper investigates the effect of corporate board attributes, ownership structure and firm-level characteristics on both corporate mandatory and voluntary disclosure behaviour in annual reports of Libyan firms.

Design/methodology/approach: Multivariate regression techniques are used to estimate the effect of corporate board and ownership structures on mandatory and voluntary disclosures of a sample of Libyan firms between 2006 and 2010.

Findings: First, we find that board size, board composition, the frequency of board meetings and the presence of an audit committee have an impact on the level of corporate disclosure. Second, this study finds an evidence that director ownership, foreign ownership, government ownership and institutional ownership have a non-linear effect on the level of corporate disclosure. Finally, we find that firm age, liquidity, listing status, industry type and auditor type are positively associated with the level of corporate disclosure.

Limitation: Future research could investigate disclosure practices using other channels of corporate disclosure, such as corporate websites. Useful insights may be offered also by future studies by conducting in-depth interviews with corporate managers, directors and owners regarding these issues.

Implication: Investors may also rely on such corporate governance characteristics to shape expectations about voluntary and/or mandatory information disclosure. Originality/value: Existing disclosure studies have mainly examined governance and voluntary disclosure relationship in non-listed firms. Our study, therefore, extends, as well as contributes to the existing literature by the examining the governance-disclosure nexus relating to both mandatory and voluntary disclosures in both listed and non-listed firms.

Paper type: Research Paper

Keywords: Corporate governance; Board and ownership structures; Corporate disclosure behaviour; Multi-theoretical perspective.

JEL Classification: G38

Suggested Citation:

Alnabsha, Abdalrhman and Abdou, Hussein A. and Ntim, Collins G. and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed, Corporate Boards, Ownership Structures and Corporate Disclosures: Evidence from a Developing Country (August 6, 2017). Alnabsha, A., Abdou, H., Ntim, C.G., and Elamer, A.A. (2017). Corporate Boards, Ownership Structures and Corporate Disclosures: Evidence from a Developing Country. Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3014390
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
115 References
M S Beasley
An Empirical Analysis of the Relation between the Board of Director Composition and Financial Statement Fraud
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
Crossref
W Beekes , P Brown , W Zhan , Q Zhang
Corporate Governance, Companies' Disclosure Practices and Market Transparency: A Cross Country Study
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting. Forthcoming Posted: 2016
Crossref
J J Benjamin , K G Stanga
Differences in Disclosure Needs of Major Users of Financial Statements
Accounting and Business Research , volume 7 , issue 27 , p. 187 - 192 Posted: 1977
Crossref
S Beretta , S Bozzolan
A Framework for The Analysis of Firm Risk Communication
International Journal of Accounting , volume 39 , p. 265 - 288 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
14 Citations
Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Collins G. Ntim , Hussein A. Abdou , Alaa Zalata , Mohamed Elmagrhi
The Impact of Multi-Layer Governance on Bank Risk Disclosure in Emerging Markets: The Case of Middle East and North Africa
Elamer, A.A., Ntim, C.G., Abdou, H.A., Zalata, A., & Elmagrhi, M. (2019) ‘The Impact of Multi-Layer Governance on Bank Risk Disclosure in Emerging Markets: The Case of Middle East and North Africa’, Accounting Forum, Forthcoming (Accepted 14th January 2019)., · 46 Pages · Posted: 18 Jan 2019 · Downloads: 107
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Engy Abdelhak , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Craig Mclaughlin , Aws Alhares
Auditors’ Ethical Reasoning in Developing Countries: The Case of Egypt
Forthcoming in Abdelhak, E., Elamer, A., & AlHares, A. (2019) ‘Auditors’ ethical reasoning in developing countries: The case of Egypt, International Journal of Ethics and Systems. (Accepted 7th June 2019). , · 52 Pages · Posted: 17 Jun 2019 · Downloads: 127
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Collins G. Ntim , Hussein A. Abdou , Chris Pyke
Sharia Supervisory Boards, Governance Structures and Operational Risk Disclosures: Evidence from Islamic Banks in MENA Countries
Global Finance Journal, Forthcoming · 44 Pages · Posted: 31 Jul 2019 · Downloads: 121
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mohamed M. El-Dyasty , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer
The Effect of Auditor Type on Audit Quality in Emerging Markets: Evidence From Egypt
El-Dyasty, M.A., & Elamer, A.A., (2020) ‘The effect of auditor type on audit quality in emerging markets: Evidence from Egypt’, International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, Forthcoming, (Accepted 1 August 2020). https://doi.org/10.1108/IJAIM-04-2020-0060 , · 33 Pages · Posted: 2 Aug 2019 · Last revised: 3 Aug 2020 · Downloads: 271
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,131
RANK
401,016
14 Citations
115 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies