Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Maximizing Value in Board Decisions: The Role of the Decision Quality Officer

Rutgers Business Review, Vol. 2, No. 2, 2017

17 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2017

Andrea Marino

Eastman Marino Consulting; Law Office of Andrea Z Marino

Wayne Eastman

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Supply Chain Management Department

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 1, 2017

Abstract

In this paper we integrate the literature on decision quality with considerations specific to boards of directors. In order to maximize the value of their decisions, boards of directors must look beyond their legal obligations and incorporate business ethics and the latest developments in social, scientific and managerial learning on governance and decision-making processes. Organizations will benefit from identifying an internal staff member who can fill the role of Decision Quality Officer (“DQO”) to advise the board on decision quality on an ongoing basis. We summarize some of the factors affecting board decisions, and explain the benefit of designating a DQO. Finally, we propose topics for a board policy on the role of a DQO.

Keywords: decision making, business ethics, decision quality

Suggested Citation:

Marino, Andrea and Marino, Andrea and Eastman, Wayne, Maximizing Value in Board Decisions: The Role of the Decision Quality Officer (August 1, 2017). Rutgers Business Review, Vol. 2, No. 2, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3014710
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Common Sense Principles of Corporate Governance Posted: 2016
Crossref
G20/OECD Principles of Corporate Governance Posted: 2015
Crossref
Common Sense Principles of Corporate Governance, supra note 1, at § II(b)
G20/OECD Principles of Corporate Governance, supra note 1 , p. 57 - 58
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,249
RANK
394,837
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies