Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investors as Stewards of the Commons?

Journal of Applied Corporate Finance 30 (2), Spring 2018

38 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2017 Last revised: 24 May 2018

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Date Written: August 7, 2017

Abstract

Over the past few years, there has been a significant increase in the number of initiatives seeking to mobilize investor voice towards positive social impact. In this paper, I provide a framework outlining the role of investors as stewards of the commons. While companies are increasingly addressing environmental and social issues that also improve their economic value, for some of these issues individual company action is costly. At the same time, for a further subset of those issues, company action coupled with collaboration between companies is value enhancing. However, collaboration between companies is notoriously difficult and fragile requiring commitment mechanisms. I suggest that a small set of large institutional investors, importantly, but not exclusively, index and quasi-index investors, could provide this commitment mechanism. Common ownership of competitors within industries and long-time horizons in ownership of shares are key characteristics for investors that could act as stewards of the commons. Social pressure fueled by socially responsible investment funds and non-profit organizations and customer pressure from individual investors are critical in mitigating free-rider problems among asset managers and sustaining engagement practices. Finally, I explore the limits and anticompetitive concerns to the theory of change presented here.

Keywords: stewardship, engagement, governance, sustainability, environment, inclusion, inequality, social change, investors

JEL Classification: M14, M20, M41, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Serafeim, George, Investors as Stewards of the Commons? (August 7, 2017). Journal of Applied Corporate Finance 30 (2), Spring 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3014952 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3014952
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
J S Altshuler , E Balogh , A D Barker , S L Eck , S H Friend , G S Ginsburg , R S Herbst , S J Nass , C M Streeter , J A Wagner
Opening up to precompetitive collaboration
Science Translational Medicine , volume 2 , issue 52 , p. 52 - 78 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Tatiana Andreyeva , Frank J Chaloupka , Kelly D Brownell
Estimating the potential of taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages to reduce consumption and generate revenue
Preventive medicine , volume 52 , issue 6 , p. 413 - 416 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Ansar , B Caldecott , J Tilbury
Stranded assets and the fossil fuel divestment campaign: what does divestment mean for the valuation of fossil fuel assets
Stranded Assets Programme , p. 1 - 81 Posted: 2013
Ap4
Sustainability and Corporate Governance Report Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,400
RANK
16,423
4 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies