Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Innovation under Demand Uncertainty: A Panel Study of Korean Firms

Hlasny, Vladimir, and Minsu Cho (2017), Corporate Governance and Innovation under Demand Uncertainty: A Panel Study of Korean Firms, International Telecommunications Policy Review 24(4):65-115.

36 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2017 Last revised: 5 Jan 2018

Vladimir Hlasny

Ewha Womans University; United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (UN-ESCWA)

Minsu Cho

Ewha Womans University, College of Social Sciences, Department of Economics, Students

Date Written: August 5, 2017

Abstract

Existing literature has identified the effects of competition and firms’ ownership and management structure on firms’ decisions to invest in innovation. We extend this literature by examining the role of market-demand uncertainty on the relationship between firm ownership, management structure and management turnover, on the one hand, and firms’ innovation on the other hand. We evaluate the effects of product-market competition, concentration of firms’ ownership, presence of foreigners on owner-appointed corporate boards of directors, management independence, and management turnover rates on firms’ patent applications under varying degrees of uncertainty. The validity of alternative hypotheses about management motivation – lazy manager, career concerns, prospect theory, and special East-Asian institutional constraints hypotheses – is evaluated, controlling for firms’ prior investment in innovation and firm characteristics. Unique data for 711 Korean firms and nine years, 2003–2011, are used (4,339 records). We find support for the lazy-manager hypothesis by identifying substitutability between market-competitive pressures and owner-manager separation in driving managers’ effort to pursue innovation. Demand uncertainty raises managers’ incentives to innovate, by increasing the potential stake from innovation and increasing the risk of default if firms fail to innovate. There is little evidence that Korean managers pursue innovation to ease their career concerns or to meet an expected performance yardstick, or that they follow a special East-Asian pattern. Management turnover has little effect on innovation, and firms’ existing performance increases it. Foreign management and the share of the largest firm owner (proxying for conglomerate or family ownership) have little effect on firms’ innovation.

Keywords: Innovation, R&D, Patents, Corporate Governance, Management-Owner Separation, Career Concerns, Demand Uncertainty, Korea

JEL Classification: O31, O32, G32, D81

Suggested Citation:

Hlasny, Vladimir and Cho, Minsu, Corporate Governance and Innovation under Demand Uncertainty: A Panel Study of Korean Firms (August 5, 2017). Hlasny, Vladimir, and Minsu Cho (2017), Corporate Governance and Innovation under Demand Uncertainty: A Panel Study of Korean Firms, International Telecommunications Policy Review 24(4):65-115., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3014138 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3014138
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Renee Adams , Daniel Ferreira
A Theory of Friendly Boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Philippe Aghion , Nicholas Bloom , Richard Blundell , Rachel Griffith , Peter Howitt
Competition and Innovation: An Inverted U Relationship?
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , issue 2 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Philippe Aghion , John Van Reenen , Luigi Zingales
Innovation and Institutional Ownership Posted: 2013
Crossref
A A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, information costs, and economic organization
American Economic Review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,481
RANK
765,896
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies