Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Performance Shares on Executive Incentives

62 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2017 Last revised: 23 Aug 2017

Andrea Pawliczek

University of Colorado at Boulder

Date Written: August 22, 2017

Abstract

I examine the determinants of performance share awards (PSAs), focusing on the factors associated with the recent increase in PSA use, and the effects of PSA use on key characteristics of compensation, pay levels and pay-for-performance sensitivity. PSAs are equity awards for which the number of shares that vest varies based on performance compared to pre-determined goals. I find that poor Say-on-Pay voting outcomes are associated with more aggressive adoption of PSAs and that PSAs have primarily replaced stock options in equity awards. Compared to stock options, PSAs have not affected ex ante compensation levels (grant date fair value), but have resulted in ex post payouts that are less variable and no lower. Moreover, PSA payouts increase in measures of CEO power. Collectively, these results support the hypothesis that PSAs are being used to disguise compensation rather than improve incentive alignment.

Keywords: CEO compensation, equity compensation, performance-based equity

JEL Classification: M41, M52, G3

Suggested Citation:

Pawliczek, Andrea, The Effect of Performance Shares on Executive Incentives (August 22, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3015967 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3015967
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
232
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,398
RANK
301,058
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies