Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and the Assessment by Auditors of the Risk of Material Misstatement

Forthcoming in Journal of Business Finance and Accounting (DOI: 10.1111/jbfa.12268)

Posted: 10 Aug 2017

Mónica LópezPuertas-Lamy

Charles III University of Madrid

Kurt A. Desender

Charles III University of Madrid - Department of Business Administration

Mircea Epure

Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF) - Department of Economics and Business; Barcelona School of Economics; UPF Barcelona School of Management

Date Written: December 11, 2015

Abstract

This paper investigates whether, and how, firms’ Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Performance influences the auditors’ assessment of the risk of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, at the financial statement level by analysing their pricing decision (i.e., audit fees). Using a panel data set of 12,330 firms from 28 countries over the period 2003-2012 and different measures of CSR performance, we find a U-shaped relationship between firms’ CSR performance and audit fees. This result suggests that there is an optimal level of CSR performance that minimizes the auditors’ assessment of the risk of material misstatement, which in turn lowers the need for greater auditor effort; that is why auditors charge firms significantly less when their CSR performance is at the optimal level. Finally, we also show that the optimal level of CSR performance varies with the degree of environmental dynamism, ownership concentration and leverage.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR); CSR performance; Audit fees; Risk of material misstatement

Suggested Citation:

LópezPuertas-Lamy, Mónica and Desender, Kurt A. and Epure, Mircea, Corporate Social Responsibility and the Assessment by Auditors of the Risk of Material Misstatement (December 11, 2015). Forthcoming in Journal of Business Finance and Accounting (DOI: 10.1111/jbfa.12268), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3015721
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,349
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies