Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reverse Termination Fees in M&A

46 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2017 Last revised: 28 Jan 2018

John C. Coates, IV

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Darius Palia

Rutgers University, Newark, School of Business-Newark, Department of Finance & Economics; Columbia University - Law School

Ge Wu

University of Richmond

Date Written: January 26, 2018

Abstract

Reverse termination fees (RTFs) are required payments by bidders when they “walk away” from a merger or acquisition, and vary significantly in size and design. In a large sample of manually collected U.S. deal contracts involving publicly traded bidders and targets, we examine the relationship between announcement returns and different types of RTFs, including those with features theorized by others to reflect inefficient design, and also RTFs that we theorize may send a negative value signal from managers seeking to “eat” rather than “be eaten” in consolidating industries. We find inefficient RTFs correlate with lower bidder returns, even in a subsample where disclosure of RTF terms lags deal announcements by more than two days. We also find inclusion of certain RTFs in consolidating industries reveals private information to the market, resulting in negative abnormal returns. Our results are robust to alternative event windows and control groups, and carry over to combined bidder and target abnormal returns, inconsistent with inefficient RTFs reflecting transfers from buyers to targets. Finally, we find an insignificant relationship between the probability of deal completion and inefficient RTFs, and a negative significant relationship between the probability of deal completion and negative signal RTFs, consistent with the fact that deals with such RTFs are adopted in consolidating industries where both deal competition and antitrust issues are higher than in other deal settings.

Keywords: Merger, Acquisition, Break Fee, Reverse Break Fee, Reverse Termination Fee, Contract

JEL Classification: D23, D82, G34, K12, K22

Suggested Citation:

Coates, John C. and Palia, Darius and Wu, Ge, Reverse Termination Fees in M&A (January 26, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3016785 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3016785
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
J G Matsusaka , A Shleifer , R W Vishny
Takeover motives during the conglomerate merger wave
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 70 , issue 3 , p. 295 - 311 Posted: 1993
C W Smith , R L Watts
The investment opportunity set and corporate financing, dividend, and compensation policies
Journal of financial Economics , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 263 - 292 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Charles K Whitehead
Sandbagging: Default Rules and Acquisition Agreements
. J Del , Corp
Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
723
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,123
RANK
81,142
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Asymmetric & Private Information eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies