Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Director Networks and Managerial Response to Non-Fundamental Price Shocks

54 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2017 Last revised: 28 Nov 2018

Ferhat Akbas

University of Illinois at Chicago - College of Business Administration

Rebecca N. Hann

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

M. Fikret Polat

University of Maryland - Department of Accounting & Information Assurance

Musa Subasi

University of Maryland-College Park - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Date Written: November 2018

Abstract

We examine whether boardroom connections help managers identify non-fundamental price shocks. We find that managers of well-connected firms are less likely to cut investment in response to exogenous non-fundamental drops in stock prices. Moreover, firms with stronger corporate governance and less managerial entrenchment are more successful at cultivating the informational benefits of boardroom connections. We further find that executive networks and director connections to board members at firms in the same industry are more effective at insulating firm investment from the adverse effects of exogenous non-fundamental shocks. Taken together, our findings suggest that improving managers’ assessment of firm fundamentals is an important channel through which director networks add value to the firm.

Keywords: Director networks; non-fundamental price shocks; corporate governance; corporate investment

JEL Classification: G3, G14, L14

Suggested Citation:

Akbas, Ferhat and Hann, Rebecca N. and Polat, M. Fikret and Subasi, Musa, Director Networks and Managerial Response to Non-Fundamental Price Shocks (November 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3016106 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3016106
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
427
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,938
RANK
156,382
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies