Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Hedge Fund Interventions on Strategic Firm Behavior

Management Science, Forthcoming

Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 17-029

53 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2017 Last revised: 18 Sep 2017

Inder K. Khurana

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

Yinghua Li

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Wei Wang

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 10, 2017

Abstract

We examine the impact of hedge fund interventions on target firms’ strategic behavior, specifically their voluntary disclosure and earnings management strategies. We find a decrease in both the likelihood and the frequency of management earnings forecasts conveying bad news and an increase in the level of real earnings management following interventions by hedge fund activists. Additional evidence suggests that managers substitute between voluntary disclosure and earnings management strategies in resisting hedge fund attacks. We also find that bad news withholding is more pronounced when hedge fund activists pose greater threats to the target firm’s management and when the intervention lasts for a relatively short time period. Our results are consistent with firms behaving strategically in response to heightened career/reputation concerns and endangered corporate control arising from hedge fund activism.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosures, earnings management, strategic behavior, shareholder activism

JEL Classification: G23, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Khurana, Inder and Li, Yinghua and Wang, Wei, The Effects of Hedge Fund Interventions on Strategic Firm Behavior (August 10, 2017). Management Science, Forthcoming , Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 17-029, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3016995
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
548
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,746
RANK
115,900
13 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies