Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Internal and External Corporate Governance on Dual Class Firms

Financial Stability Studies, Vol. 17, No. 2, Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation(KDIC), 2016, pp. 113-171.

Posted: 10 Aug 2017 Last revised: 10 Jan 2019

Young Sang Kim

Northern Kentucky University - College of Business; Taejae University

Hoje Jo

Santa Clara University

Sang Mook Lee

Pennsylvania State University - Great Valley School of Graduate Professional Studies

Date Written: December 31, 2016

Abstract

We examine the effects of internal and external corporate governance and monitoring mechanisms on the dual-class status and the firm value of dual-class firms. Employing 736 dual-class firms and 7,027 single-class firms in U.S., we find that dual-class firms tend to be larger, and have higher director ownership, higher institutional ownership, lower blockholdings, and a smaller fraction of independent directors on their boards than single-class firms. In addition, we observe that dual-class firms are followed by a smaller number of security analysts. After correcting for endogeneity bias, our results show that not only firms with higher analyst coverage, but also firms with higher analyst following and a lower wedge, measured as the difference between voting rights and cash flow rights, are strongly associated with Tobin’s q. In contrast, blockholders’ ownership, board independence, and institutional ownership play a relatively insignificant role in enhancing dual-class firm value. We interpret these results suggest that security analysts are one of the most effective monitoring mechanisms that influence both the dual-class choice and firm value. Our results are not attributed either to the difference in firm size or to an industry effect.

Keywords: Dual-class firms, Corporate governance, Analyst following

JEL Classification: G34, L2

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Young Sang and Jo, Hoje and Lee, Sang Mook, The Effect of Internal and External Corporate Governance on Dual Class Firms (December 31, 2016). Financial Stability Studies, Vol. 17, No. 2, Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation(KDIC), 2016, pp. 113-171., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3016157 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3016157
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,195
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation (KDIC) Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies