Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assurance Level Choice, CPA Fees, and Financial Reporting Benefits: Inferences from U.S. Private Firms

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

Simon Business School Working Paper No. FR 17-17

56 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2017 Last revised: 14 Sep 2022

Brad A. Badertscher

University of Notre Dame

Jaewoo Kim

University of Oregon - Department of Accounting

William Kinney

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Edward Owens

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Date Written: September 12, 2022

Abstract

Many U.S. private firms choose either a financial statement compilation or review rather than the higher assurance provided by an audit, yet little is known about these choices. We explore economic aspects of private firm choice of less-than-audit levels of assurance applied to GAAP-based financial statements. We find that CPA fees more than double for each increment in assurance. Commonly used financial reporting quality proxies are higher for both reviews and audits relative to compilations but are statistically indistinguishable on average between reviews and audits. Cost of debt is significantly lower for reviews than for compilations and significantly lower for audits than for reviews. Finally, we find that assurance level choices are associated with bank debt, trade credit, and potential internal information reliability and control concerns.

Keywords: assurance levels, audits, reviews, compilations, CPA fees, financial reporting quality, cost of debt

JEL Classification: G21, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Badertscher, Brad A. and Kim, Jaewoo and Kinney, William and Owens, Edward, Assurance Level Choice, CPA Fees, and Financial Reporting Benefits: Inferences from U.S. Private Firms (September 12, 2022). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Simon Business School Working Paper No. FR 17-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3016422 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3016422
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
579
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,146
RANK
108,012
11 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies