Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Succinct Survey of Informative Perspectives on Financial Analysts

Applied Finance and Accounting 10 (1), 13-37

26 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2017 Last revised: 12 Aug 2025

Chi Keung Man

University of Aberdeen

Date Written: August 11, 2017

Abstract

From Katherine Schipper’s (1991) perspective, analysts’ job is only providin’ buy-hold-sale recommendations and generate analysis research report to gauche general analysts, gauche and unwary users or weakling investors. Based on her explanation, analysis research report includes one important information is earning expectation. Analysts engage decision process through evaluatin’, assessin’ and analyizin’ information from various sources, including earnings and other financial and non-financial information from SEC filings (e.g. form 10K, 8K etc), corporate proxy statements and annual, semi-annual and quarterly financial reports; industry environment, competitor environment and macroeconomic conditions such as interest rate and the government related rules and regulations; corporate conference calls, corporate press release, corporate news in different media devices, other management conversions. Some large investment banks would even provide qualitative research reports describing industry prospects such as a juxtaposition of different companies within an industry, market share distribution. It is instructive here to succinctly disintegratively consider four overarching (and progressively more inclusive) perspectives as to the roles of financial analysts and the financial and non financial information pronging on their properties. On the reverse, many weakling investors art diffident, denonair and flinch to invest into corporations without full disclosure of corporate accounts. The main contribution for financial analysts is making capital market efficiency.

Keywords: A Succinct Survey Literature Review Informative Perspective Financial Analysis

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Man, Chi Keung, A Succinct Survey of Informative Perspectives on Financial Analysts (August 11, 2017). Applied Finance and Accounting 10 (1), 13-37, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3017321
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,017
RANK
667,795
169 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies