Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Succinct Survey of Corporate Social Responsibility: Definition, Theory and Economic and Capital Market Repercussions

Academy of Management Journal, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2017 Last revised: 31 Aug 2017

Chi Keung Man

University of Aberdeen

Date Written: August 11, 2017

Abstract

This paper can succinctly review the last five decades most prominent and influential researches, including the examination of CSR eclectic and versatile definitions, pithy classification, conceive theories, and the impacts on various stakeholders such as corporations, employees, competitors, customers and so forth.Most people are capable of sentiment, and can therefore understand what it means to be responsible. They, when individuals face complex ethical dilemmas, are likely to refer to their conscience for guidance. These individuals, because their conscience serves as a guide for moral behaviour, are likely to experience perceptible emotional discomfort when they bear witness to either their own irresponsible behaviour. Individuals are similarly likely to feel discomfort when they perceive irresponsible behaviour on the part of others, including companies. Responsibility can, according to the world dictionary, be effable, which is ‘the state or fact of being responsible, answerable, or accountable for something within one’s power, control, or management’. This definition implies that responsibility relates to an individual’s inherent ability to respond to or answer for one’s own conduct and behaviour. Also implicit in this definition is that individuals are also held to account by others in reference to things about which they are responsible. These things can include duties, obligations, and the capacity to distinguish between right and wrong. Just as individuals bear responsibility for their actions, companies do as well. This paper carefully but not pedantically examines with scrupulous attention to detail.

Keywords: A Succinct Survey Corporate Social Responsibility

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Man, Chi Keung, A Succinct Survey of Corporate Social Responsibility: Definition, Theory and Economic and Capital Market Repercussions (August 11, 2017). Academy of Management Journal, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3017320
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Ana Gómez-Bezares , Fernando Gómez-Bezares
Doctrina Social de la Iglesia Católica y performance empresarial: la sostenibilidad como constructo ético y económico (Social Doctrine of the Catholic Church and Business Performance: Sustainability as an Ethical and Economic Concept)
104 Pages · Posted: 10 Sep 2019 · Downloads: 92
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
337
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,890
RANK
204,108
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies