Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shortages in Corporate Liquidity during Crises and Normal Times: Evidence from SEC Filings

Posted: 16 Aug 2017

Stefan Pitschner

Uppsala University; CUNY Queens College BUSINESS SCHOOL

Date Written: June 12, 2017

Abstract

During the 2008-2010 financial crisis a large number of firms experienced acute liquidity shortages and adjusted real policies such as their employment and investment decisions. Searching the texts of approximately 900,000 SEC filings from the past twenty years, we document that these reactions were very similar to the ones implemented by firms that face shortages during more normal times. However, what made the crisis unique was that many of the affected firms were large, profitable and difficult to distinguish from the median public company. As a result, many widely-used financial constraint measures lost much of their informational content during the crisis and underestimated the number of affected firms. We discuss the theoretical and empirical implications of our findings and what they say about the nature of the financial crisis.

Suggested Citation:

Pitschner, Stefan, Shortages in Corporate Liquidity during Crises and Normal Times: Evidence from SEC Filings (June 12, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3018667 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3018667
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,075
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies