Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Influence of Public Policy on Governance: Is There a Role for Shareholders as Stakeholders?

The Journal of Global Business Issues – Conference Edition 2008

5 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2017

Mohammed Nadeem

University of San Francisco; University of San Francisco

Date Written: July 5, 2008

Abstract

This study examines whether corporations should operate solely to maximize shareholder value or to serve a more broadly defined, diverse set of social interests. This paper reviews how American public policy toward corporations has rested upon different answers to this question, from colonial times to the twenty-first century. It does so in order to provide a historical context in which to view the social and ethical issues that underlie recent corporate scandals. In the last several years, powerful Chief Executive Officers (CEO’s) have been forced out by the board members, employees, shareholders, and the government for poor performance or ethical improprieties. Boardroom scandals and corruption of companies during periods of crisis (Murray, 2007) have created a sense of paranoia and a zero-tolerance atmosphere. As Public corporations are in the midst of radical change due to governmental oversight and the role of the CEO may be greatly diminished as a result. American corporate finance and law has been shaped by the failures of bold, visionary speculators whose reckless gambles invariably attempted a bridge too far and inflicted great damage on others when they collapsed. In turn, their debacles spurred the reforms of the New Deal and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Compounding the scandals is an ongoing catand- mouse game between regulators efforts to police the factors that lead to failures and efforts by corporate America (Skeel, 2005) to evade the current regulation in the name of efficiency and flexibility. But there is also a silver lining to the stunning failures: the outrage they provoke galvanizes public opinion in favor of corporate reform. This study offers a strikingly new diagnosis of the corporate governance in the context of recent corporate scandals that raise ethical questions related to the duties and obligations of corporate directors and officers, and lessons to be learned for global corporations.

Keywords: Top Management Teams; Boardroom; Consumer Behavior; CEO; Corporate

Suggested Citation:

Nadeem, Mohammed and Nadeem, Mohammed, Influence of Public Policy on Governance: Is There a Role for Shareholders as Stakeholders? (July 5, 2008). The Journal of Global Business Issues – Conference Edition 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3018208
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,194
RANK
677,550
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies