Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
U.S. Firms on Foreign (tax) Holidays

Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 18-3

64 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2017 Last revised: 11 Oct 2018

Travis Chow

The University of Hong Kong

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Edward L. Maydew

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Date Written: October 10, 2018

Abstract

We undertake the first large-sample analysis of foreign tax holiday participation by U.S. firms. Tax holidays are temporary reductions of tax granted by governments, usually contingent on the firm making new operational investments in the country. We predict and find that firms are more likely to participate in foreign tax holidays if they are highly capital-intensive and have highly profitable foreign operations, and less likely to participate in foreign tax holidays if they are capital constrained and if the firm is headed by a short-term focused CEO. Finally, while foreign tax holidays reduce taxes on foreign income, we also find that during our sample period they increase the amount of U.S. tax on foreign income.

Keywords: Tax holiday, corporate tax, international tax

JEL Classification: H25, H26, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chow, Travis and Hoopes, Jeffrey L. and Maydew, Edward L., U.S. Firms on Foreign (tax) Holidays (October 10, 2018). Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 18-3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3018819 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3018819
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction Terms in Logit and Probit Models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
H Akamah , W B O.-K. Hope , Thomas
Tax havens and disclosure aggregation
Journal of International Business Studies , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2017
Crossref
R Altshuler , T S Newlon
The Effects of U.S. Tax Policy on the Income Repatriation Patterns of U.S. Multinational Corporations Posted: 1991
Crossref
R Altshuler , T S Newlon , W C Randolph
Do Repatriation Taxes Matter? Evidence from the Tax Returns of U.S. Multinationals
The Effects of Taxation on Multinational Corporations , p. 253 - 276 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
503
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,509
RANK
128,733
5 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies