Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organizational Determinants of Firm Performance in Family Businesses: Organizational Commitment to Employees, Budgetary Support and Teamwork

33 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2017

Jane Terpstra-Tong

Monash University - Sunway Campus

Sakthi Mahenthrian

Butler University

Date Written: August 15, 2017

Abstract

Organizational processes related to commitment to its employees (OCE), budgetary support, and teamwork are critical for firms to build tacit knowledge and respond effectively to complex external environments. We study the impact of these organizational processes and how they interact with the firms’ entrepreneurial orientation and founders’ influence to affect firm performance in two major cities in Malaysia and the U.S. Responses from 113 Malaysian and 52 US SMEs are used to test four hypotheses. The study results show that all three organizational processes directly influences firm performance. Additionally, budgetary support positively interacts with the founders’ influence and entrepreneurial orientation to affect firm performance while founders’ influence and OCE negatively interact to affect performance. The findings suggest that founders’ influence on OCE versus budgetary support can have offsetting effects in family-run SMEs, and that the effect of entrepreneurial orientation on firm performance can be amplified with increasing level of budgetary support.

Suggested Citation:

Terpstra-Tong, Jane and Mahenthrian, Sakthi, Organizational Determinants of Firm Performance in Family Businesses: Organizational Commitment to Employees, Budgetary Support and Teamwork (August 15, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3019319 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3019319
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
B S Anderson , Y Eshima
The influence of firm age and intangible resources on the relationship between entrepreneurial orientation and firm growth among Japanese SMEs
Journal of Business Venturing , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 413 - 429 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R Anderson , D Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
Y Bammens , G Notelaers , A Gils
Implications of family business employment for employees' innovative work involvement
Family Business Review , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 123 - 144 Posted: 2015
Crossref
J Barney
Firm resources and sustained competitive advantage
Journal of management , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 120 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,317
RANK
735,901
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies