Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Connections within Executive Teams and Management Forecasts

Management Science (2019) 65: 439–457;

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper No. 18-8

45 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2017 Last revised: 16 Dec 2022

Ruihao Ke

Independent

Meng Li

Steed School of Accounting, University of Oklahoma

Zhejia Ling

California State University, Fullerton

Yuan Zhang

University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: August 15, 2017

Abstract

We examine the role of teamwork within the top executive teams in generating management forecasts. Using social connections within the executive team to capture the team’s interaction, cooperation, and teamwork, we find that social connections among team members are associated with higher management forecast accuracy, consistent with economic theories that information is dispersed within a firm and with sociology insights that social connections facilitate information sharing. Further analyses show that the association between social connections and forecast accuracy is stronger when the teams are just beginning to work together, when their firms face more uncertainty or adversity, and when the CEOs are less powerful. Our results hold for a subsample of executive teams that experience pseudo exogenous shocks to their social connectedness. Taken together, our results underscore the importance of teamwork among executives in the forecast generation process.

Keywords: social connection, executive team, management forecast

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Ke, Ruihao and Li, Meng and Ling, Zhejia and Zhang, Yuan, Social Connections within Executive Teams and Management Forecasts (August 15, 2017). Management Science (2019) 65: 439–457; , SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper No. 18-8, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3019734
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
454
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,465
RANK
145,642
18 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies