Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trust within Boards Under Crisis

8 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2017 Last revised: 11 Apr 2021

Tama Copeman

Maya*7

Date Written: August 15, 2017

Abstract

Board dynamics are a function of many variables. We look into board dynamics through the lens of one of the underlying factors, trust. Trust between board members is one of the foundational elements for effective functioning of the board. To develop a feel for dynamics of the board as a whole, we use a simple conceptual framework based on relationships between each of the members. Further, we focus on emerging growth stage companies ranging from angel and venture funded through post IPO.

Suggested Citation:

Copeman, Tama, Trust within Boards Under Crisis (August 15, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3019595 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3019595
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
David Rose
Angel Investing, John Wiley and Sons Electronic copy available at Posted: 2014
Crossref
Nasim Taleb
The Black Swan -Impact of the Highly Improbable Posted: 2010
Steven Kaplan , Per Stromberg
Financial Contracting Theory Meets the Real World: An Empirical Analysis of Venture Capital Contracts
Review of Economic Studies
Crossref
John Nesheim , ; Simon , Schuster Lindsay , O&apos; Neil
Why Do Startups Fail? An Analysis of 3
Highgrowth Technology Startups Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,116
RANK
759,678
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies