Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Generalists Versus Specialists: The Board's Revealed Perception of CEO General Skill and CEO Pay

30th Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2017

Posted: 17 Aug 2017

Leo Liu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Lixiong Guo

University of Mississippi

Date Written: August 16, 2017

Abstract

We construct a new index of CEO general managerial skill using the industry composition of the CEO compensation peer group and use it to examine the relation between CEO general skill and CEO pay. Our index has the advantage of capturing the board’s perception of CEO general skill and is less subject to concerns for confounding factors than existing measures based on lifetime work experience. Using our index, we find that the board does set a higher pay benchmark for generalist CEOs than specialist CEOs, however, the premium is not large enough to significantly increase CEO total pay. To validate our index, we provide evidence that industry composition of peer groups contains information about a CEO’s general skill and our index performs better and is less affected by CEO power and other confounding factors in capturing general skill than the existing measure. Overall, our evidence supports the existence of a pay premium for generalist CEOs but we find its effect on CEO total pay to be too small to explain the rise in executive compensation over the past decades.

Keywords: Executive Compensation, Compensation Peer Group, Board of Directors

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Leo and Guo, Lixiong, Generalists Versus Specialists: The Board's Revealed Perception of CEO General Skill and CEO Pay (August 16, 2017). 30th Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3020504
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,554
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies