Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimation of Firms' Market Reputation: A Platform for Pragmatic Progress

40 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2017 Last revised: 21 Jan 2021

Oghenovo A. Obrimah

FISK University

Date Written: January 21, 2021

Abstract

This study provides formal theoretical evidence that in presence of leverage, share prices cannot be characterized to be robust proxies for product price premiums that are outcomes of firms' corporate reputations. The formal theoretical model predicts proxies for each of corporate reputation, and product price premiums can be derived from firms' financial statements. In presence of global convexity of relations between reputation estimates, and estimates of prior period product price premiums, constructs proposed for each of price premiums or corporate reputation are predicted to be robust. Perpetuity of regulatory reporting ensures robust constructs that are derived from firms' financial statements have time series properties, absence of which has stunted development of a rich literature that studies reputation of non-financial corporations. In presence of generality or normativeness of the global convexity condition, and allowance for development of reputation constructs that are industry specific, commonality of robustness theory (across industries) is combined with pragmatism of industry specificity. We have then that differences in effects of corporate reputation are comparable across industries.

Keywords: Reputation, Branding, Firm Performance, Convexity, Concavity, Venture Capital

JEL Classification: L10, L14, G24

Suggested Citation:

Obrimah, Oghenovo A., Estimation of Firms' Market Reputation: A Platform for Pragmatic Progress (January 21, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3020133 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3020133
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,344
2 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies