Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Customer Concentration on CEO Risk-Taking Incentives

53 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2017 Last revised: 9 Dec 2017

Jong Won Han

Seoul National University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 7, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of customer base concentration (“CC”), which captures the extent to which sales to major customers account for a supplier’s total annual revenue, on the supplying firm’s CEO risk-taking equity incentives. Existing literature predominantly uses total annual revenue as a proxy for firm size or managerial decision difficulty without examining from whom the revenue is earned. My paper improves this design by decomposing total annual revenue into revenue from major customers and revenue from the rest based on the CC concept posited by Patatoukas (2012). As prior literature shows CC risk to be idiosyncratic (Dhaliwal et al., 2013) and modern risk-based asset pricing theories posit that idiosyncratic return volatility is not priced amongst the risk-neutral investors, CC risk is diversifiable at the shareholder level – hence, only the performance-related net-benefits (Patatoukas, 2012) of engaging in contractual relationships with a few major customers should determine the desirability of high CC for the risk-neutral investors. However, in the midst of deficient accommodation, a risk-averse, undiversified manager may exhibit risk-aversion towards the state of high CC. Thus, I expect the BOD to recognize this potential agency problem and provide more risk-taking incentives for a CEO who manages a highly concentrated customer base. Upon empirical investigation, I document that CC exerts a positive influence over the supplier’s CEO vega incentives, whereby the CEO is compensated for assuming additional CC risk as her equity wealth becomes an increasing function of the firm’s stock return volatility. Furthermore, I show that less risk-taking incentives are expected when the degree of product substitution difficulty is high or the supplier’s trade credit levels are low, illustrating that the predictability of CC over CEO equity incentives varies with the settings in which the suppliers and customers interact.

Keywords: Managerial incentives, supply-chain, agency theory, risk-taking

Suggested Citation:

Han, Jong Won, The Effect of Customer Concentration on CEO Risk-Taking Incentives (December 7, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3021711 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3021711
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,809
RANK
193,307
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies