Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Earnings Forecasts and Target Ratcheting: From the Perspective of Abnormal Accruals

30th Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2017

35 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2017 Last revised: 11 Dec 2017

Koichi Uchida

Hitotsubashi University - Graduate School of International Corporate Strategy, Students

Mikiharu Noma

Hitotsubashi University - Graduate School of International Corporate Strategy

Date Written: August 18, 2017

Abstract

This paper analyzes earnings management for the current year and the revision of management earnings forecasts (MEF) for the next year. It reports that the ratchet effect can be observed at the managerial level. Principals, who do not hold as much comprehensive information on productivity as agents do, determine the future budget based on past performance. This tendency of target ratcheting may cause a ratchet effect, wherein agents reduce their effort to prevent future budgets from being revised upward. First, in the relationship with shareholder as the principal and manager as the agent, evidence that target ratcheting can be observed in MEF is presented. Next, the study assumes two managers with different unmanaged earnings forecasts for the next year in order to analyze abnormal accruals manipulated by them in the current year, and the MEF revision for the next year—one includes management who attains the current year’s MEF, but predicts earnings decline for the next year (TRANSIT), while the other attains the current year’s MEF, but predicts earnings increase the next year (PERSIS). Consistent with the ratchet effect, both TRANSIT and PERSIS reduce accruals in the current period. Finally, the relationship between abnormal accruals of the current year and the revision of MEF for the next year are analyzed. The results show that the ratchet effect is only observed in TRANSIT. These results suggest that the managerial difficulty of the consecutive earnigs increases is a necessary condition for the ratchet effect to be established.

Keywords: Ratchet effect, Earnings management, Management earnings forecasts

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Uchida, Koichi and Noma, Mikiharu, Management Earnings Forecasts and Target Ratcheting: From the Perspective of Abnormal Accruals (August 18, 2017). 30th Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3021617 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3021617
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,290
RANK
527,931
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies