Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Structure, Analyst Coverage, and Forecast Error: Are family firms different from others?

60 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2017 Last revised: 11 Oct 2017

Nicolas Eugster

University of Queensland - Business School

Date Written: October 10, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines the relationship between ownership structure, analyst coverage, and forecast error for a sample of 160 companies listed on the Swiss Exchange for the period 2003-2013. A distinction is made between family firms, widely held firms, and firms owned by another blockholder. I utilize the subsample of family firms to gauge the following characteristics: generation, involvement in management, use of dual class shares, and excess control by the largest shareholder. The results show that family firms are less frequently followed by analysts, but their earnings are better forecasted. Furthermore, by looking only at family firms and their characteristics, I find evidence that the higher the likelihood of expropriation, the higher the number of analysts following them in comparison with other family firms; however, I find little association between the likelihood of expropriation and forecast error.

Keywords: Family Firms, Widely Held Firms, Generation, Active Family, Ownership Structure, Analyst Following, Forecast Error

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Eugster, Nicolas, Ownership Structure, Analyst Coverage, and Forecast Error: Are family firms different from others? (October 10, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3021821 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3021821
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Ali , T.-Y Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R C Anderson , A Duru , D M Reeb
Founders, Heirs, and Corporate Opacity in the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 92 , p. 205 - 222 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R C Anderson , E Ottolenghi , D M Reeb
The Extreme Control Choice Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,127
RANK
672,649
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies