Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Ex Ante versus Ex Post Discretionary Contracts on Worker Performance, Trust, and Reciprocity

55 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2017 Last revised: 1 Dec 2019

Eric W. Chan

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Jeremy B. Lill

University of Kansas

Date Written: November 1, 2019

Abstract

Managers can set explicit, binding targets to reward workers before observing their performance (ex ante contract), or decide whether to reward workers after observing their performance (ex post contract). We experimentally examine the effects of the two types of contracts on workers’ behaviors in the common setting where information asymmetry prevents managers from directly observing workers’ effort and ability. Our results indicate that workers’ performance, trust, and positive reciprocity toward their managers are lower under an ex ante contract than an ex post contract because managers often set ineffective ex ante targets that do not match workers’ ability. However, providing managers with up-to-date, peer performance benchmark information offsets the negative effects of an ex ante contract by increasing workers’ perceived fairness of the target-setting process, despite no change in the target levels. Our results highlight how uncertainty in incentive contracts and benchmarking can motivate workers and build trust within organizations.

Keywords: Incentive contracting, managerial discretion, trust, reciprocity, fairness

Suggested Citation:

Chan, Eric W. and Lill, Jeremy B., The Effects of Ex Ante versus Ex Post Discretionary Contracts on Worker Performance, Trust, and Reciprocity (November 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3022406 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3022406
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,008
RANK
354,044
2 Citations
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies