Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Member Characteristics and Committee Effectiveness: Evidence from Turkish Banking Sector

International Journal of Monetary Economics and Finance, 2020

16 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2020

Yaman O. Erzurumlu

Illinois State University - Department of Finance, Insurance and Law

Gurcan Avci

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 1, 2020

Abstract

Lack of corporate governance was addressed as one of the reasons for financial scandals and crises experienced during the 2000s. Financial crises were followed by audit committee mechanism revision, and focus shifted onto how audit committees’ governance quality could be improved. Using a unique data set, this study investigates the impact of audit committee membership characteristics on the governing quality of the audit committee measured by operational loss in the Turkish Banking Sector. Results imply that gender diversification and multiple directorships of the members improve the governance effectiveness while auditing background alone does not make significant improvement after controlling for industry experience. Differences in cultural background and insufficient funding of the committee could be detrimental to the effectiveness of banks’ audit committees at mitigating operational risk. Trends of the member characteristics for 2006-2012 suggest that the 2008 turbulence has mainly had a disciplinary effect on active audit committees.

Keywords: Audit Committee; Audit Committee Membership; Operational Risk; Operational loss; Corporate Governance; Banks; Turkey; LSDVC

JEL Classification: G21, G34, M42

Suggested Citation:

Erzurumlu, Yaman O. and Avci, Gurcan, Audit Committee Member Characteristics and Committee Effectiveness: Evidence from Turkish Banking Sector (April 1, 2020). International Journal of Monetary Economics and Finance, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3022476
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements. Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Renée B. Adams , Stephen Gray , John Nowland
Does Gender Matter in the Boardroom? Evidence from the Market Reaction to Mandatory New Director Announcements
Pages: 55 Posted: 2 Nov 2011 Last revised: 23 Jul 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Aggarwal , I Erel , R Stulz , R Williamson
Differences in governance practices between us and foreign firms: measurement, causes, and consequences
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 3131 - 3169 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
655
RANK
635,835
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies