Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Bank's Internal Governance Mechanism on Operational Loss: Evidence from Turkey

Iranian Economic Review, 2020

20 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2020

Yaman O. Erzurumlu

Illinois State University - Department of Finance, Insurance and Law

Gurcan Avci

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 1, 2020

Abstract

We study the impact of internal governance mechanisms on the operational risk management provided with deposit banks of Turkey as a Basel compliant representative banking system. Drawing from internal audit, internal control, and risk management literature, we consider the impact of characteristics of these mechanisms on the degree of operational loss at the subcommittee level. Two factors stand out as improving the internal governance of banks. Internal governance quality improves resulting in less material operational loss with adequate staffing. Organization of the internal governance mechanisms, carefully structured control points, and sufficient reporting to senior level management in banks ensure that banks’ shareholders experience fewer surprises. Excess funding has limited or no effect on mitigating operational loss. Characteristics are more significant for internal audit and internal control subcommittees than they are for risk management subcommittee. Results are robust when tests are repeated with aggregated data in order to capture potential cooperation between and contribution of the individual units.

Keywords: Internal Audit; Internal Control; Risk Management; Operational Risk; Operational Loss; Corporate Governance; Internal Governance

JEL Classification: C33, G21; G34; M42

Suggested Citation:

Erzurumlu, Yaman O. and Avci, Gurcan, The Impact of Bank's Internal Governance Mechanism on Operational Loss: Evidence from Turkey (February 1, 2020). Iranian Economic Review, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3022517
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
A Agbejule , A Jokipii
Strategy, control activities, monitoring and effectiveness
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 24 , issue 6 , p. 500 - 522 Posted: 2009
Crossref
E M Al-Matari , A Al-Swidi , F H B Fadzil
The effect of the internal audit and firm performance: a proposed research framework
International Review of Management and Marketing , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 34 - 41 Posted: 2013
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
Crossref
T J Andersen
The performance relationship of effective risk management exploring the firm-specific investment rationale
Long Range Planning , volume 41 , issue 2 , p. 155 - 176 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
616
RANK
741,762
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies