Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Excess Audit Committee Compensation and Audit Pricing

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Vol. 14, No. 2/3, 2018

Posted: 24 Aug 2017 Last revised: 21 Apr 2018

Rachana Kalelkar

University of Houston - Victoria

Sarfraz Khan

University of Louisiana at Lafayette

Sung-Jin Park

Korea Institute of Public Finance; Indiana University South Bend

Date Written: August 20, 2017

Abstract

In this study, we explore audit pricing decisions in the presence of excess audit committee compensation. Specifically, we examine whether excess compensation of audit committee members is related to audit fees. We find that excess compensation is positively associated with audit fees. We further examine whether the excess compensation affects auditors pricing of earnings manipulation, and find evidence suggesting that auditors perceive earnings manipulation risk relatively low when the audit committee members are paid excess compensation. Overall, our results support the notion that audit committee excess compensation represents greater monitoring over a firms financial reporting process, which affects auditors' risk assessment.

Keywords: audit committee, compensation, audit fees

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Kalelkar, Rachana and Khan, Sarfraz and Park, Sung-Jin, Excess Audit Committee Compensation and Audit Pricing (August 20, 2017). International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Vol. 14, No. 2/3, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3023326
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
859
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies