Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Related Party Transactions and Audit Fees: The Role of the Internal Audit Function in Malaysia

Journal of Management & Governance, Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2017 Last revised: 30 Aug 2018

Redhwan Al-dhamari

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Bakr Al-Gamrh

ESC Rennes School of Business

Ku Nor Izah Ku Ismail

Universiti Utara Malaysia - School of Accountancy

Samihah Haji Ismail

Universiti Utara Malaysia - College of Arts and Sciences

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

Related party transactions (RPTs) are viewed as genuine transactions that rationally fulfill other economic demands of a company. However, RPTs can also be used to transfer wealth from minority shareholders to controlling shareholders. The existence of such transactions may deteriorate financial reporting quality, increase audit risk, and as a result increase audit fees. This study examines the relationship between RPTs and audit fees in Malaysia, where ownership is often concentrated within a controlling family and corporate governance mechanisms are poor. It also investigates the moderating effect of the internal audit function (IAF) on this relationship. We find that external auditors base their fees on the types of RPTs undertaken. Specifically, our results show that audit fees are higher for firms that undertake RPTs involving the sale and purchase of assets, goods, and services. We also document that external auditors rely on the IAF, and thus their fees are lower for firms that undertake RPTs and that have made a large investment in an IAF. Our study is the first to provide evidence that RPTs in Malaysian firms may be abused as a channel to facilitate tunneling and that the IAF plays a vital role in controlling such transactions.

Keywords: audit fees, related party transactions, internal audit, Malaysia

Suggested Citation:

Al-dhamari, Redhwan and Al-Gamrh, Bakr and Ku Ismail, Ku Nor Izah and Haji Ismail, Samihah, Related Party Transactions and Audit Fees: The Role of the Internal Audit Function in Malaysia (2017). Journal of Management & Governance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3023884
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit Fee Reductions from Internal Audit-Provided Assistance: The Incremental Impact of Internal Audit Characteristics*
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 118 Posted: 2012
Crossref
S N Abdullah , N Z M Yusof , M N M Nor
Financial restatements and corporate governance among Malaysian listed companies
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 25 , issue 6 , p. 526 - 552 Posted: 2010
J Aharony , J Wang , H Yuan
Tunneling as an incentive for earnings management during the IPO process in China
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S S Ahlawat , D J Lowe
An examination of internal auditor objectivity: In-house versus outsourcing
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 147 - 158 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,332
RANK
411,549
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies