Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Approach to Accounting Goodwill (and Other Identified Intangibles with Indefinite Useful Lives): Theory and Empirical Evidence

50 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2017 Last revised: 8 Oct 2017

Paulo Roberto B. Lustosa

University of Brasilia

Date Written: August 21, 2017

Abstract

I elaborate upon the foundations of Gecon – Economic Management System – model to propose a new theory on goodwill and other identified intangibles with indefinite useful lives. I reason that firm value is made up of its physical and intangible wealth, both continuously affected by passage of time and change of conjuncture. The first, more stable, is the opportunity cost of the implemented managerial decisions to buy, sell and manufacture assets. The second, more instable, is the economic value of the new ideas and plans still to be implemented, which seems to be the true nature of goodwill. The non-recognized intangibles act like the firm’s virtuous. They are not separated assets, for their value is already reflected into the economic value of the physical and intangible wealth, the same way that virtuous in a person are embodied in her mind and body. According to this view, accounting goodwill is a portion of the intangible wealth of the acquirer, which quickly dissipates being converted (or not) into physical equity. Statistical tests on a 29,192 firm-year observation panel database show evidence that this new approach to goodwill (and other intangibles with indefinite useful lives) seems to be true.

Keywords: Goodwill; Gecon; Physical Equity; Intangible Equity

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Lustosa, Paulo Roberto B., A New Approach to Accounting Goodwill (and Other Identified Intangibles with Indefinite Useful Lives): Theory and Empirical Evidence (August 21, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3023311 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3023311
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
D Ashton , K Peasnell , P Wang
Residual Income Valuation Models and Inflation
European Accounting Review , volume 39 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Barth , W Beaver , W Landsman
The relevance of the value relevance literature for financial accounting standard setting: another view
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
Crossref
L Von Bertalanffy
General Systems Theory: Foundations, Development, Applications Posted: 1968
M Bugeja , N Gallery
Is Older Goodwill Value Relevant? Accounting & Finance , volume 46 , p. 519 - 535 Posted: 2006
Load more
1 Citations
Kleber Vasconcellos de Oliveira , Paulo Roberto Barbosa Lustosa
The entanglement of accounting goodwill: Einstein’s “spooky action at a distance”
Accounting Forum , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 148 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,503
RANK
297,230
1 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies