Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reexamining Dual-Class Stock

Business Horizons, Forthcoming

Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 3023323

15 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2017

Vijay Govindarajan

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business

Anup Srivastava

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Date Written: August 21, 2017

Abstract

Snapchat’s initial public offering, which provided shares with no voting rights, is a culmination of the growing trend of dual-class shares. It contradicts the precept of one-share, one-vote that is essential for corporate democracy. Snapchat’s action caused uproar among influential investors. In January 2017, a coalition of the world’s biggest money managers, which together control more than $17 trillion in assets, demanded a total ban on dual-class shares. We reason that the increasing prominence of dual-class stock is explained by the confluence of three economic trends: the growing importance of intangible investments, the rise of activist investors, and the decline of staggered boards and poison pills. A dual-class structure offers immunity against proxy contests initiated by short-term investors. It enables managers to ignore capital market pressures and to avoid myopic actions such as cutting research and development, which hurt companies in the long run. Thus, a dual-class structure is optimal in certain scenarios. We put forth alternatives to dual-class structure that enable managers to maintain control while retaining focus on sustainable value creation.

Keywords: Dual-class shares, Corporate governance, Activist investors, Innovation, Myopic actions

Suggested Citation:

Govindarajan, Vijay and Srivastava, Anup, Reexamining Dual-Class Stock (August 21, 2017). Business Horizons, Forthcoming, Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 3023323, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3023323
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
2 Citations
Yvan Allaire
The Case for Dual-Class of Shares
36 Pages · Posted: 7 Feb 2019 · Downloads: 1,134
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Donald Nordberg
Art in Corporate Governance: A Deweyan Perspective on Board Experience
Manuscript accepted by Philosophy of Management (Springer, CC BY; doi: 10.1007/s40926-020-00152-y) · 25 Pages · Posted: 14 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 55
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
393
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,571
RANK
172,005
2 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies