Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Corporate Governance and Transparency in the Generation of Financial Performance in Socially Responsible Companies

Forthcoming in Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting

48 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2017

Francisco López-Arceiz

Universidad Pública de Navarra; University of Zaragoza - Department of Accounting and Finance

Ana Bellostas-Pérezgrueso

University of Zaragoza

Jose M. Moneva

University of Zaragoza - Department of Accounting and Finance

Pilar Rivera

University of Zaragoza

Date Written: August 23, 2017

Abstract

Socially responsible companies develop strategies based on ESG criteria. Literature and agents operating in the markets are concerned about knowing whether the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Corporate Governance (CG) practices have a positive impact on financial performance. Main studies indicate that good CG practices are associated with a commitment to transparency. Our aim is to analyse the impact that CSR disclosure, as a transparency mechanism, and good CG practices have on the financial performance of socially responsible companies. To this aim, a system of simultaneous equations is proposed, in which the CSR disclosure variable has a mediating role, acting as liaison between the CG adopted by the organization and the financial valuation. The results indicate that companies who wish to rise funding on the financial markets should develop both: a good CG and a high level of CSR disclosure, as part of their CSR strategy.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Transparency, Financial Performance, Accessibility, CSR disclosure, Global Reporting Initiative

JEL Classification: M14, C34, G30

Suggested Citation:

López-Arceiz, Francisco and Bellostas-Pérezgrueso, Ana and Moneva, Jose M. and Rivera, Pilar, The Role of Corporate Governance and Transparency in the Generation of Financial Performance in Socially Responsible Companies (August 23, 2017). Forthcoming in Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3024913
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
W F Abbott , R J Monsen
On the measurement of corporate social responsibility: Self-reported disclosures as a method of measuring corporate social involvement
Academy of Management Journal , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 501 - 515 Posted: 1979
Crossref
Y He , Z Tian , Y Chen
Performance implications of nonmarket strategy in China
Asia Pacific Journal of Management , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 151 - 169 Posted: 2007
Crossref
S S M Ho , K S Wong
A study of the relationship between corporate governance structure and the extent of voluntary disclosure
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 41 - 47 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M Hopkins
Corporate social responsibility and international development: is business the solution Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Andrea Perez , Carlos López-Gutiérrez , Mª del Mar García de los Salmones , Paula San-Martin
Stakeholder Salience, Positive Csr News and the Market Value of Banks
Forthcoming in REFC – Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, · 36 Pages · Posted: 24 Oct 2019 · Downloads: 61
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Arshed Iqbal , Jamshed Iqbal , Arto Ojala
Foreign Divestment and the Insolvency Risk: Evidence from Nordic Firms
IREF-D-24-00219 · 45 Pages · Posted: 2 Jul 2024 · Downloads: 35
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,576
RANK
429,664
2 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies