Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Interaction between Informal and Formal Institutions: Corruption Culture and External Auditor Monitoring

56 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2017 Last revised: 7 Apr 2021

Tracy Gu

The University of Hong Kong, HKU Business School

Date Written: December 1, 2017

Abstract

The literature shows that a firm’s fraud risk is rooted in its culture. I investigate whether auditors play a role in mitigating the impact of corrupt corporate cultures on accounting fraud. I find that, on average, firms with high corruption cultures are less likely to have high-quality auditors and that this negative association is more pronounced when firms can better generate funds internally. Nevertheless, the association between corruption culture and auditor choice has an inverted-U relationship. This is consistent with firms with high corruption cultures demanding higher-quality auditors to mitigate agency conflicts and that auditors rejecting clients when fraud risk is too high. Given auditor choice, audit effort is higher for firms with higher corruption cultures and mitigates the positive relation between corruption culture and financial reporting fraud. This paper operationalizes the nature of audit production and acknowledges the value of auditors in detecting and correcting fraud in pre-audit financial statements.

Keywords: Corporate Corruption Culture, Informal Institution, Formal Institution, Audit Effort, Accounting Fraud, Audit Fees

JEL Classification: G30, M40, Z10

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Tracy (Ti), The Interaction between Informal and Formal Institutions: Corruption Culture and External Auditor Monitoring (December 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3024391 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3024391
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
973
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,922
RANK
54,379
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies