Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Incentives for Risk-Taking and Internal Capital Allocation

Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 42, No. 3, 2017

Posted: 25 Aug 2017

Lorenzo Casavecchia

University of Technology Sydney

Ja Young Suh

Independent

Date Written: November 15, 2016

Abstract

In this study, we show that the option-like structure of equity-based compensation encourages managerial risk-taking and provide new evidence on the way in which CEO’s risk-taking could manifest itself in a multi-segment firm. Our results show that a greater sensitivity of managerial compensation to shareholder wealth — as proxied by CEO’s portfolio vega — leads to greater risk-taking through active capital allocation. We then analyze the impact of risk-taking on shareholder wealth and demonstrate that risk-taking is positively associated with future stock returns. Overall, this article contributes to the literature by providing evidence that equity-based compensation does actually promote the alignment of interests between shareholders and managers.

Keywords: Equity-Based Compensation, Internal Capital Allocation, Risk-Taking

JEL Classification: G30, M12

Suggested Citation:

Casavecchia, Lorenzo and Suh, Ja Young, Managerial Incentives for Risk-Taking and Internal Capital Allocation (November 15, 2016). Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 42, No. 3, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3024556
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,139
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies