Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trade Secrets Law and Corporate Disclosure: Causal Evidence on the Proprietary Cost Hypothesis

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2017-70

78 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2017 Last revised: 8 Sep 2017

Yinghua Li

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Yupeng Lin

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN); Business School, National University of Singapore

Liandong Zhang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

This study exploits the staggered adoption of the inevitable disclosure doctrine (IDD) by U.S. state courts as an exogenous shock that generates variations in the proprietary costs of disclosure. We find that firms respond to IDD adoption by reducing the level of disclosure regarding their customers’ identities, supporting the proprietary cost hypothesis. Our results are stronger for firms in industries with a higher degree of entry threats, for firms in more volatile industries, and for firms with a lower degree of external financing dependence. Overall, this study represents one of the first efforts in identifying the causal effect of proprietary costs of disclosure on the supply of disclosure.

Keywords: Proprietary Costs, Corporate Disclosure, Customer Identity, Inevitable Disclosure Doctrine, Trade Secrets Law

JEL Classification: D82, D83, K11, L1, M41

Suggested Citation:

Li, Yinghua and Lin, Yupeng and Zhang, Liandong, Trade Secrets Law and Corporate Disclosure: Causal Evidence on the Proprietary Cost Hypothesis (2017). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2017-70, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3025877
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: financial disclosure regulation and externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A ; S Ali , E Klasa , Yeung
The limitations of industry concentration measures constructed with Compustat data: Implications for finance research
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 3839 - 3871 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A ; S Ali , E Klasa , Yeung
Industry concentration and corporate disclosure policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Daniel Aobdia
Employee Mobility, Noncompete Agreements, Product-Market Competition, and Company Disclosure
Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming Pages: 84 Posted: 18 Jul 2017 Last revised: 23 Aug 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
773
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,750
RANK
74,422
20 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies