Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Examination of Challenges Faced by Internal Auditors in Public Sector Audit in South-Eastern Nigeria

Amaechi and Chinedu; AJEBA, 3(2): 1-13, 2017; Article no.AJEBA.33944

13 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2017

Amaechi Egbunike

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Chinedu Francis Egbunike

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: August 24, 2017

Abstract

Internal auditors play crucial role in ensuring, accountability, probity and governance of public sector entities. However, the effective performance of such duties would depend on the challenges faced by internal auditors in public sector institutions. The objective of this study is therefore to examine the challenges faced by internal auditors in public sector audit in south-eastern, Nigeria. The study shall specifically examine whether independence of internal auditors, compliance with set out rules and regulations of public fund management and, improper segregation of duties pose a challenge to internal auditors of public sector entities. The study adopted the survey research design. The population of the study was drawn from accountants and auditors in the offices of the Accountant-General and Auditor-General of Anambra State. The study employed Independent-Samples Mann-Whitney U Test technique in testing the formulated hypotheses. The study finds out that while independence and the compliance with set out rules and regulations of public fund management pose a challenge to internal auditors of public sector entities, however, that improper segregation of duties does not pose a challenge to internal auditors of public sector entities. The study recommends that the independence of internal auditors in public institutions should be enthroned. And, secondly, to ensure compliance with rules and regulations of public fund management ensured.

Keywords: internal audit, public sector, audit, accountability

Suggested Citation:

Egbunike, Amaechi and Egbunike, Chinedu Francis, An Empirical Examination of Challenges Faced by Internal Auditors in Public Sector Audit in South-Eastern Nigeria (August 24, 2017). Amaechi and Chinedu; AJEBA, 3(2): 1-13, 2017; Article no.AJEBA.33944 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3025271
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
The Ministry of Finance and Economic Development [MoFED]. Internal audit standards and code of ethics for internal auditors and internal audit procedural manual. Ministry of Finance and Economic Development Posted: 2004
Getie Mihret , D , Wondim Yismaw , A
Internal audit effectiveness: An Ethiopian public sector case study
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 22 , issue 5 , p. 470 - 84 Posted: 2007
K Oshisami
Government accounting and financial control. Ibadan: Spectrum Books Posted: 2004
A Ebimobowei , B Binaebi
An examination of the effectiveness of auditing of local government financial reports in Bayelsa State
Nigeria. Current Research Journal of Social Sciences , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 45 - 53 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
438
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,907
RANK
151,887
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies