Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Cultural Integration on Financial Performance Post-Merger

Global Journal of Business Research Vol. 11, No. 1, 2017, pp. 71-84

14 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2017

Rishma Vedd

California State University, Northridge

David Liu

California State University, Northridge - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

This research study examined the effects of combining unlike corporate cultures. We analyzed both successful and unsuccessful mergers measured by post-merger performance indicators for the year before and after the merger. Our null hypothesis states that the success or failure of organizations in combining their respective corporate cultures is directly proportional to their financial performance, measured by the aforementioned indicators of Stock Price, Net Income, and Earnings per Share both before and after the merger. Our alternative hypothesis states that there is an inversely proportional relationship for financial performance after a merger. The results conclude that the probability of an improvement or decline of financial performance after a merger is 0.5 depending on the success or failure in combining corporate cultures. The study shows that five subjects accepted the null hypothesis, two subjects accepted the alternative, and three subjects rejected both the null hypotheses and the alternative hypotheses.

Keywords: Corporate Culture; Merger; Post-Merger Performance

JEL Classification: F0; G0

Suggested Citation:

Vedd, Rishma and Liu, David, The Effect of Cultural Integration on Financial Performance Post-Merger (2017). Global Journal of Business Research Vol. 11, No. 1, 2017, pp. 71-84, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3025746
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Amazon Company
10-K Annual Report Posted: 2009-04-06
10-K Annual Report
Anheuser Busch InBev Company Posted: 2008-04-06
Anonymous
Troubled outlook confronts Merrill amid boa merger
Global Capital Posted: 2009-04-06
Aol-Time Warner
10-K Annual Report Posted: 2000-04-06
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
644
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,292
RANK
94,244
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies