Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Test of Income Smoothing Using Pseudo Fiscal Years

50 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2017 Last revised: 26 Jul 2021

Dirk E. Black

Iowa State University - College of Business

Spencer Pierce

Florida State University - College of Business

Wayne B. Thomas

University of Oklahoma

Date Written: June 10, 2021

Abstract

The purpose of our study is to further understand managerial incentives that affect the volatility of reported earnings. Prior research suggests that the volatility of fourth-quarter earnings may be affected by the integral approach to accounting (i.e., “settling up” of accrual estimation errors in the first three quarters of the fiscal year) or earnings management to meet certain reporting objectives (e.g., analyst forecasts). We suggest that another factor affecting fourth-quarter earnings is managers’ intentional smoothing of fiscal-year earnings. For each firm, we create pseudo-year earnings using four consecutive quarters other than the four quarters of the reported fiscal year. We then compare the earnings volatility of pseudo years to the earnings volatility of the firm’s own reported fiscal year. We find evidence consistent with fourth-quarter accruals reflecting managerial incentives to smooth fiscal-year earnings. This conclusion is validated by several cross-sectional tests, the pattern in quarterly cash flows and accruals, and several robustness tests. Overall, we contribute to the literature exploring alternative explanations for the differential volatility of fiscal year and fourth-quarter earnings.

Keywords: income smoothing, earnings management, earnings volatility, accruals

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Black, Dirk E. and Pierce, Spencer and Thomas, Wayne B., A Test of Income Smoothing Using Pseudo Fiscal Years (June 10, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3026235 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3026235
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
A Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
K Allee , B Badertscher , T Yohn
Private versus public corporate ownership: Implications for future changes in profitability
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 55 Posted: 2020
Crossref
E Allen , C Larson , R Sloan
Accrual reversals, earnings and stock returns
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 129 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A N Berger , G F Udell
The economics of small business finance: The roles of private equity and debt markets in the financial growth cycle
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 22 , issue 6-8 , p. 613 - 673 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
475
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,569
RANK
137,964
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies