Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Accumulated Wealth and Corporate Governance Quality on Nonprofit Performance

Seventh International Engaged Management Scholarship Conference, 2017

16 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2017

Ron Hetrick

Temple University

Kose John

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Date Written: September 8, 2017

Abstract

This study will explore the relationship between governance quality, accumulated wealth, and organizational performance in U.S. nonprofits. Accumulated wealth in nonprofits has been previously shown to reduce overall support contributions due to donor perception of reduced need of financial resources. The absence of shareholders in the nonprofit sector also lend itself to weaker monitoring mechanisms and inherent agency problems. Despite the size of the nonprofit sector (5.5% of GDP and 9% of employment), the impact of governance in organizations with accumulated wealth has not received much attention. Using recent data on governance practices at nonprofits, this study finds that the strength of governance practices in nonprofits reduces the negative impact of accumulated wealth in Arts, Health, and Human Services organizations.

Keywords: Nonprofit, nonprofit performance, corporate governance, accumulated wealth

Suggested Citation:

Hetrick, Ron and John, Kose, The Effects of Accumulated Wealth and Corporate Governance Quality on Nonprofit Performance (September 8, 2017). Seventh International Engaged Management Scholarship Conference, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3027097 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3027097
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
R K Aggarwal , M E Evans , D Nanda
Nonprofit boards: Size, performance and managerial incentives
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 466 - 487 Posted: 2012
Crossref
W Bowman , H P Tuckman , D R Young
Issues in nonprofit finance research: Surplus, endowment, and endowment portfolios. Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly , volume 41 , p. 560 - 579 Posted: 2011
Crossref
T D Calabrese
Do donors penalize nonprofit organizations with accumulated wealth?
Public Administration Review , volume 71 , issue 6 , p. 859 - 869 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J E Core , W R Guay , R S Verdi
Agency problems of excess endowment holdings in notfor-profit firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 307 - 333 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,846
RANK
459,150
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies