Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Geographic Dispersion

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

29 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2017

Guifeng Shi

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU)

Jianfei Sun

Shanghai Jiao Tong University - Antai College of Economics and Management

Li Zhang

Thompson Rivers University

Yufang Jin

School of Management, Fudan University

Date Written: August 29, 2017

Abstract

Using a sample of U.S listed firms from 1994 to 2015, we examine how the geographic dispersion of a firm affects corporate social responsibility (CSR). We find that corporate geographic dispersion is negatively associated with CSR scores. We further find that this robust negative relationship is more pronounced for firms located in the small communities, which is consistent with the social interaction explanation. A Heckman test shows that the results hold when we control for endogeneity between geographical dispersion and CSR. Our paper provides evidence that local firms may better protect their stakeholders than geographically dispersed firms.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility; Geographic Dispersion; Geographic Concentration; Social Interaction

JEL Classification: G30; M41; M14

Suggested Citation:

Shi, Guifeng and Sun, Jianfei and Zhang, Li and Jin, Yufang, Corporate Social Responsibility and Geographic Dispersion (August 29, 2017). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3029064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
K H Bae , J K Kang , J Wang
Employee treatment and firm leverage: A test of the stakeholder theory of capital structure
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , p. 130 - 153 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Baker , J C Stein , J Wurgler
When does the market matter? Stock prices and the investment of equity-dependent firms
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 3 , p. 969 - 1005 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B Barber , T Odean
All that glitters: The effect of attention and news on the buying behavior of individual and institutional investors
Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , p. 785 - 818 Posted: 2008
Crossref
B W Benson , W N Davidson
The relation between stakeholder management, firm value, and CEO compensation: A test of enlightened value maximization
Financial Management , volume 39 , p. 929 - 963 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,607
RANK
436,820
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies