Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Relations and Borrower Corporate Governance and Incentive Structures

47 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2017

Carlo Maria Gallimberti

Boston College

Richard A. Lambert

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Jason J. Xiao

SUNY at Binghamton - School of Management

Date Written: August 30, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines the use of governance and incentive mechanisms beyond loan contract provisions that borrowers use to reduce contracting costs with lenders. We show that as the strength of the relationship between a borrower and a lender intensifies over time, borrowing firms are more likely to elect bank employees to their boards of directors, apply corporate governance structures that insulate managers from turnover, decrease managers’ risk-taking incentives, and increase information asymmetries with non-bank capital providers. Interestingly, many of the adopted governance and incentive mechanisms are commonly thought to decrease shareholder wealth outside intense bank-firm relations. Our results highlight the importance of context in assessing the costs and benefits of governance and incentive structures.

Keywords: relationship lending, interlocks, entrenchment, equity incentives, information asymmetry, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G21, G32, G34, D82

Suggested Citation:

Gallimberti, Carlo Maria and Lambert, Richard and Xiao, Jason J., Bank Relations and Borrower Corporate Governance and Incentive Structures (August 30, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3029930 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3029930
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
294
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,192
RANK
236,690
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies