Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Trust Distance in Mergers and Acquisitions

58 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2017 Last revised: 28 Jun 2023

Tse-Chun Lin

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Vesa Pursiainen

University of St. Gallen; Swiss Finance Institute

Date Written: September 16, 2019

Abstract

We study the role of regional cultural differences in M\&A transactions in the U.S. A larger social trust distance between two companies reduces the likelihood of them combining via an M\&A transaction and results in lower completion rates and longer completion times, indicating higher complexity in deal execution. However, a larger social trust distance is also associated with higher gains from mergers, as measured by acquirer and combined announcement returns and medium-term buy-and-hold abnormal returns. This suggests that for these announced deals, the synergy potential is high enough to offset the costs induced by the large cultural distance.

Keywords: mergers and acquisitions, cultural difference, trust, social capital, synergies

JEL Classification: A13, D71, G34, M14, Z1

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Tse-Chun and Pursiainen, Vesa, Social Trust Distance in Mergers and Acquisitions (September 16, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3030566 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3030566
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
378
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,520
RANK
179,657
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies