Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Another Failed M&A: Misaligned Business Models as Culprit

Le Floc’h, G., Scaringella, L. (2017), “Another failed M&A: misaligned business models as culprit”, Journal of Business Strategy, 38 (5), 18-26

15 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2017 Last revised: 13 Jul 2018

Gaël Le Floc’h

ESC Rennes School of Business

Laurent Scaringella

Rennes School of Business; Kozminski University

Date Written: September 1, 2017

Abstract

Literature on Business Models (BMs) has grown very rapidly since the beginning of the 21st century, and although the theoretical and empirical literature has developed significantly, the number of practical and management-oriented studies remains relatively low. A recent debate in the field has focused on the definition of BM invariants: (1) sensing customer needs, (2) creating customer value, (3) sustaining value creation, and (4) monetizing value. Extant empirical studies have mainly focused on Multinational Enterprises (MNEs) and successful BMs; however, this study concentrates on the failure of BMs in the case of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). An important source of a BM’s failure is the misalignment between MNE and SME involved in an acquisition. Looking through the lens of the four BM constants, the aim of this study is to examine the case of the acquisition of Domestic Heating (an SME) by Ventilair (an MNE). Although both separate entities were achieving good results and each had a specific BM, the acquisition produced poor results mainly due to the misalignment of the two BMs. Our findings lead us to make recommendations to practitioners on avoiding BM misalignment during an acquisition. We encourage practitioners to enhance communication, promote organizational experiments, acknowledge specificities of both entities, foster employee commitment, and ensure homogeneity in IT system usage.

Keywords: Business model, acquisition, failure, practitioners, SME, key factors

Suggested Citation:

Le Floc’h, Gaël and Scaringella, Laurent, Another Failed M&A: Misaligned Business Models as Culprit (September 1, 2017). Le Floc’h, G., Scaringella, L. (2017), “Another failed M&A: misaligned business models as culprit”, Journal of Business Strategy, 38 (5), 18-26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3030842
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
P Ahokangas , J Myllykoski
The practice of creating and transforming a business model
Journal of Business Models , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 6 - 18 Posted: 2014
J Aspara , J A Lamberg , A Laukia , H Tikkanen
Corporate business model transformation and inter-organizational cognition: The case of Nokia
Long Range Planning , volume 46 , p. 459 - 474 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C Baden-Fuller , V Mangematin
Business models: A challenging agenda
Strategic Organization , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 418 - 427 Posted: 2013
Crossref
P Baumard , W Starbuck
Learning from failures: Why it may not happen
Long Range Planning , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 281 - 298 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
823
RANK
856,579
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies