Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate Attributes on the Extent of Voluntary Disclosure and Reporting by Listed Companies in Bangladesh

International Journal of Accounting and Business Finance, Issue 1 (2017)

34 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2017

Sumon Das

University of Dhaka - Department of Management

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

The aim of this study is to determine the extent and level of voluntary reporting of the listed companies in Bangladesh. It also explores the potential effects of corporate governance characteristics, ownership aspects and firm characteristics on voluntary reporting. The sample of the study consists of 123 companies with 861 firm year observations listed in the Dhaka Stock Exchange, Bangladesh for the year 2004 to 2010. To measure the extent of reporting self constructed checklists have been used which contains 97 items focusing on corporate social reporting, corporate environmental reporting and corporate sustainability reporting. The study found that level of total voluntary reporting in the annual reports of listed Bangladeshi companies is low. However, a gradual increase in the extent of voluntary reporting and its categories has been noticed over the period of study. Through regression analysis, the outcomes show significant positive relationship between voluntary reporting and firm size, firm's liquidity, percentage of independent directors and board structure while it has significant negative relationships with market categories, company age and number of independent directors. However, audit committee and board size have a non-significant relationship with voluntary reporting of the listed Bangladeshi companies over the examined period.

Keywords: Voluntary Reporting, Corporate Social Reporting, Corporate Environmental Reporting, Corporate Sustainability Reporting

Suggested Citation:

Das, Sumon, The Impact of Corporate Attributes on the Extent of Voluntary Disclosure and Reporting by Listed Companies in Bangladesh (2014). International Journal of Accounting and Business Finance, Issue 1 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3030635
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
M Lipton , J Lorsch
A modest proposal for improved corporate governance
Business Lawyer , volume 48 , p. 59 - 77 Posted: 1992
C Marston , P Robson
Financial Reporting in India: Changes in Disclosure over the Period
Asia Pacific Journal of Accounting , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 109 - 139 Posted: 1982
Crossref
R Monks , N Minow
Corporate Governance Posted: 1995
Crossref
D Mcmullen
Audit committee performance: an investigation of the consequences associated with audit committees
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 15 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,498
RANK
441,693
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies