Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Family Firm as an Inter - Institutional System: New Venture Creation in Indian Family Firms

Indian School of Business WP 3031715

Posted: 6 Sep 2017

Joseph Lampel

City University London - The Business School

A. Bhalla

Cass Business School, City, University of London; affiliation not provided to SSRN

K. Ramachandran

Indian School of Business

Date Written: October 22, 2011

Abstract

This paper advances the nascent literature on institutional logics by outlining the theory of family firm as an inter-institutional system. We specifically examine justifying family logic for the decision to allocate resources for a new venture in a family firm. Using case studies of thirty-six NVs in eight Indian family firms at different stages of evolution our findings suggest that within family firms, resource allocation to new ventures requires justification fitting the family’s Economic, Expertise, Reputation and Attachment (EERA) logic. We propose that the family EERA logic enables family members acting as NV champions to more openly frame NV opportunities in terms of their personal preferences than non-family managers. When screening these NV opportunities, family firms are also more likely to compromise on economic criteria and give preference to nurturing family expertise and attachment logic. Family members acting as NV champions are also under lesser constraints to justify NV performance-corporate alignment to secure additional resources at implementation stage.

Keywords: Entrepreneurship, Case study, Institutional theory, Qualitative research design, Entrepreneurship processes

Suggested Citation:

Lampel, Joseph and Bhalla, Ajay and Bhalla, Ajay and Ramachandran, K., The Family Firm as an Inter - Institutional System: New Venture Creation in Indian Family Firms (October 22, 2011). Indian School of Business WP 3031715, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3031715
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,048
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies