Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Signposts or Weathervanes? The Curious Case of Corporate Social Responsibility and Conflict Minerals

Journal of Business Ethics, Vol. 2935, No. 3, 2015

47 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2017

Ozlem Arikan

Sheffield University Management School

Juliane Reinecke

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

Crawford Spence

Concordia University

Kevin Morrell

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

Date Written: November 16, 2015

Abstract

Corporate social responsibility is often framed in terms of opposing constructions of the firm. These reflect, respectively, different accounts of its obligations: either to shareholders or to stakeholders (who include shareholders). Although these opposing constructions of corporate responsibility are diametrically opposed, they are also much more fluid and mobile in certain contexts, since they can act as discursive resources that are deployed and brought into play in the struggle over shaping what responsibility means. They are less the fixed, ideological “signposts” they might appear, and more like “weathervanes” that move alongside changing rhetorical currents. To show this, we analyse the Securities and Exchange Commission consultation process, and legislation, relating to the provenance of “conflict minerals”. We identify two dialectically opposed camps, each seeking to influence final legislation and with end goals in keeping with the shareholder/stakeholder dichotomy. One camp lobbied for firms to scrutinize their entire supply chain, constructing the firm as a “global citizen” with very wide social responsibilities. The second camp lobbied for a lighter touch approach, constructing the firm as a “trader”, with much narrower social responsibilities. We analyse the complex interplay between these two opposed camps, our contribution being to show how both deploy competing conceptions of the corporation as discursive resources.

Keywords: Auditing, Conflict minerals, Disclosure, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Corporate social responsibility

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Arikan, Ozlem and Reinecke, Juliane and Spence, Crawford and Morrell, Kevin, Signposts or Weathervanes? The Curious Case of Corporate Social Responsibility and Conflict Minerals (November 16, 2015). Journal of Business Ethics, Vol. 2935, No. 3, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3032498
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas: Second Edition
OECD Posted: 2013
Crossref
17 CFR PARTS 240 and 249b, Release No. 34-67716; File No
Roundtable on Conflict Minerals Posted: 2011-10-18
Crossref
D E Agbiboa
Between corruption and development: The political economy of state robbery in Nigeria
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 108 , issue 3 , p. 325 - 345 Posted: 2012
Crossref
P Archel , Husillos , C Spence
Loading the dice of Corporate Social Responsibility Discourse: The Institutionalisation of Managerial Capture, Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 36 , p. 327 - 343 Posted: 2011
Load more
2 Citations
Ishaan Kapoor , William Pratt-Rogers , Muhammet Mustafa Kahraman
The Problem of Conflict Minerals: A Systematic Review of Current Approaches and the Road Ahead
JRPO-D-22-01180 · 30 Pages · Posted: 4 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 157
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hans Bonde Christensen
Is Corporate Transparency the Solution to Political Failure on our Greatest Problems? A Discussion of Darendeli, Fiechter, Hitz, and Lehmann (2022)
Christensen, H. B. 2022. Is Corporate Transparency the Solution to Political Failure on our Greatest Problems? A Discussion of Darendeli, Fiechter, Hitz, and Lehmann (2022), Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 74, No. 2, 2022 · 22 Pages · Posted: 27 Sep 2022 · Last revised: 11 Jan 2023 · Downloads: 257
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,249
2 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies