Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt Financing and Balance-Sheet Collateral: Evidence from Fair-Value Adjustments

56 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2017 Last revised: 12 Feb 2024

Aleksander A. Aleszczyk

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business; London Business School

Emmanuel T. De George

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Aytekin Ertan

London Business School

Florin P. Vasvari

London Business School

Date Written: September 1, 2020

Abstract

Using a novel hand-collected dataset of business combination disclosures, we investigate whether reported fair-value adjustments (FVAs) are associated with subsequent changes in the acquiring entity’s borrowing activity and debt contracting terms. FVAs represent the difference between the fair market value and the book value of a target’s net assets at the time of acquisition. We document that FVAs have a significant and positive impact on the balance sheet of the combined entity. Specifically, on average, reported FVAs on non-goodwill assets result in a 60 percent increase in the value of the target’s assets, and a 5.6 percent increase in the total assets of the acquirer. In multivariate analysis we find that FVAs are consistently associated with an increase in debt issuance in the post-deal period. Moreover, we find that this new debt is cheaper, more likely to be secured, has longer-term maturities, and tends to include more balance sheet covenants. Notably, the documented improvement in debt contracting terms is primarily attributable to FVAs on tangible assets, as opposed to intangible assets. Taken together, our findings suggest that fair value measurement of balance sheet assets provides lenders with important credit-relevant information about firms’ collateralizable assets.

Keywords: fair value adjustments, debt contracting, mergers & acquisitions, collateral

JEL Classification: M41, G32, G34, G12

Suggested Citation:

Aleszczyk, Aleksander and De George, Emmanuel T. and Ertan, Aytekin and Vasvari, Florin P., Debt Financing and Balance-Sheet Collateral: Evidence from Fair-Value Adjustments (September 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3032580 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3032580
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Revaluations of fixed assets and future firm performance: Evidence from the UK
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1999
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contract approach to financial contracting
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
A M Arikan , R M Stulz
Corporate acquisitions, diversification, and the firm's life cycle
Journal of Finance , volume 71 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 194 Posted: 2016
R T Ball , R M Bushman , F P Vasvari
The debt-contracting value of accounting information and loan syndicate structure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 247 - 287 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
588
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,016
RANK
105,875
2 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies