Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Explicating Media, Governance, and Capitalism: A Critical Comparative Analysis of Historical Cases

Edgell, Robert A., Watson, D., Harasta, B., Pfyl, R., & Xu, Y. (2015). Explicating media, governance, and capitalism: A critical comparative analysis of historical cases. Corporate Board: Role, Duties and Composition, 11(1), 30-46.

33 Pages Posted: 1 May 2018

Robert Edgell

SUNY Polytechnic Institute; University of St. Gallen; Columbia University - Columbia Business School

David Watson

State University of New York (SUNY) - SUNY Polytechnic Institute

Balazs Harasta

Deutsche Bank AG

Roland Pfyl

Finanzkontrolle Kanton Schwyz

Yingzi Xu

Shanghai Theatre Academy

Date Written: March 31, 2015

Abstract

Ample literature argues that media is vital for the functioning of democratic public discourse and helps other firms comply with effective governance. While scholars have focused on understanding media’s impact on corporate governance, they have not thoroughly investigated how media companies are governed. Accordingly, we adopt a qualitative and comparative historical case narrative approach for investigating and analyzing corporate governance in commercial media firms. The paper contributes nuanced and critical insights into governance practices in the context of institutional change. Our evidence suggests that commercial media, suffering from firm governance challenges, may not have the collective capacity to effectively function as meaningful discursive components in capitalist systems. The paper concludes with a critical discussion and additional areas for future research.

Keywords: Media, Historical Cases, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G34, L82

Suggested Citation:

Edgell, Robert and Watson, David and Harasta, Balazs and Pfyl, Roland and Xu, Yingzi, Explicating Media, Governance, and Capitalism: A Critical Comparative Analysis of Historical Cases (March 31, 2015). Edgell, Robert A., Watson, D., Harasta, B., Pfyl, R., & Xu, Y. (2015). Explicating media, governance, and capitalism: A critical comparative analysis of historical cases. Corporate Board: Role, Duties and Composition, 11(1), 30-46., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3033322
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
The cross-national diversity of corporate governance: Dimensions and determinants
Academy of Management Review , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R V Aguilera , C A Williams , J M Conley , D E Rupp
Corporate governance and social responsibility: A comparative analysis of the UK and the US
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 147 - 158 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,143
RANK
872,402
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies