Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Costs and Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Sin Firms

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2017 Last revised: 25 Apr 2021

Cong Wang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Ryan J. Wilson

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Shuran Zhang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Hong Zou

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: August 19, 2019

Abstract

The products and services of firms operating in sin industries (alcohol, tobacco, gaming, and firearms) run contrary to social norms and can produce significant negative externalities for society. As such, we expect that sin firms are at greater risk of incurring political costs in the form of additional regulation, higher excise taxes, or capital market intervention if they come under scrutiny for their income tax avoidance practices. Because of the nature of their products, regulators and policymakers are likely to face less pushback on new regulations or taxes on these firms. Sin firms start with a lower ability to influence the political process than firms in non-sin industries. Consequently, we hypothesize and find that sin firms exhibit less tax avoidance than non-sin firms, particularly through uncertain and more risky tax avoidance strategies. The negative relationship between the status of sin firms and tax avoidance is less pronounced in firms that accumulate political capital via intensive lobbying activities. Exploiting changes in partisan control of the Congress and White House, difference-in-differences tests show that firearm firms engage in less (more) tax avoidance when the Democrats (Republican) control both the Congress and White House. Overall, we conclude that political costs play an important role in corporate tax avoidance decisions.

Keywords: political capital, political cost, tax avoidance, sin firms

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Cong and Wilson, Ryan J. and Zhang, Shuran and Zou, Hong, Political Costs and Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Sin Firms (August 19, 2019). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3034635 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3034635
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
Crossref
J Barrick , J Brown
Tax-related corporate political activity research: A literature review
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 89 Posted: 2019
Crossref
D A Becher , M B Frye
Does regulation substitute or complement governance?
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 736 - 751 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M D Beneish , I P Jansen , M F Lewis , N V Stuart
Diversification to mitigate expropriation in the tobacco industry
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 89 , issue 1 , p. 136 - 157 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Kathleen Rehbein , Ronei Leonel , Frank den Hond , Frank de Bakker
How Do Firms That Are Changing the World Engage Politically?
Rutgers Business Review, Vol. 5, No. 2, 2020, pp.203-225. · 23 Pages · Posted: 1 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 192
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
495
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,404
RANK
131,230
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies