Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Advent of Accounting in Business Governance: From Ancient Scribes to Modern Practitioners

International Journal of Business Governance and Ethics, 12(1), 21-46. 2017

43 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2017

Jenifer Axtell

Murray State University - College of Business

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Wayne Tervo

Murray State University - Accounting Department

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

General social theory provides a framework within which accounting and its role in advancing business and society can be examined, including historical development and functions. This study examines the advent of accounting in business governance, from ancient origins to present day, from the scribes of ancient Mesopotamia to the internal control concepts described by the Apostle Paul in the Bible, from Friar Luca Pacioli’s landmark book published in Renaissance Italy to the work of modern-day accountants employing the latest technology, to the expanding role of women in the profession. Throughout history, while standards and technologies have changed, a fundamental purpose of accounting in business governance remains constant: to provide a test of stewardship or accountability for those trusted with financial resources. Findings of this paper will be of interest to business stakeholders and academic researchers, who will be able more clearly to see the role that accounting played in the progress and development of business over millennia.

Keywords: business governance, accounting history, accounting standards, ancient Mesopotamia, Roman Empire

JEL Classification: B10, B12, B25, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Axtell, Jenifer and Smith, Murphy and Tervo, Wayne, The Advent of Accounting in Business Governance: From Ancient Scribes to Modern Practitioners (2017). International Journal of Business Governance and Ethics, 12(1), 21-46. 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3035965
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
S A Adams , Jew , Roman Greek , Brill
Paul The Roman Citizen: Roman Citizenship In The Ancient World And Its Importance For Understanding Acts , volume 22 , p. 309 - 326 Posted: 2008
Crossref
D Ariail , M Abdolmohammadi , L M Smith
Ethical Predisposition of Certified Public Accountants: A Study of Gender Differences
Research on Professional Responsibility and Ethics in Accounting , volume 16 , p. 29 - 56 Posted: 2012
Crossref
P Ashcroft , L M
Impact of Environmental Regulation on Financial Reporting of Pollution Activity: A Comparative Study of U.S. and Canadian Firms
Research in Accounting Regulation , volume 20 , p. 127 - 153 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Aicpa
Olivia Kirtley Elected President of the International Federation of Accountants', AICPA Posted: 2014-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
749
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,516
RANK
77,600
1 Citations
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies