Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Renegotiations of Target CEOs' Personal Benefits During Mergers and Acquisitions

48 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2017 Last revised: 10 Oct 2017

Paige Harrington Patrick

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 11, 2017

Abstract

Many view large payments following mergers or acquisitions as excessive and evidence of rent extraction. Using additional disclosures required by the SEC since 2006, I hand-collect details of pre-existing change in control (CIC) provisions in employment agreements and CIC benefits granted to target CEOs during mergers. I find that CIC benefits are renegotiated in approximately 50 percent of my sample. I then investigate whether renegotiation of CIC benefits tends to be opportunistic, or, instead, evidence of efficient contracting. The overall evidence is more consistent with efficient contracting. This contrasts prior research that focuses solely on certain components of CIC benefits, such as employment in merged firms or merger bonuses. I find that changes in CIC benefits are positively associated with the CEO’s horizon, as would be predicted by efficient contracting, but only limited evidence that changes in CIC benefits are positively associated with proxies for CEO power, as would be predicted by rent extraction. Acquiring firm shareholders interpret increases in target CEOs’ CIC benefits as evidence of rent extraction, although I find that the merged firm’s post-merger performance is positively associated with changes in CIC benefits. This result is more consistent with acquiring firms providing target CEOs increased CIC benefits to complete mergers and realize synergies than with value-reducing rent extraction.

Keywords: Renegotiation, Compensation, Mergers, Acquisitions

JEL Classification: G34, M12, M52

Suggested Citation:

Patrick, Paige Harrington, Renegotiations of Target CEOs' Personal Benefits During Mergers and Acquisitions (September 11, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3035616 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3035616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economic Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A Ghosh
Does operating performance really improve following corporate acquisitions
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 151 - 178 Posted: 2001
Crossref
E Harris
Antitakeover measures, parachute payments, and target firm shareholder welfare
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 21 , issue 4 , p. 614 - 625 Posted: 1990
Crossref
J Hartzell , E Ofek , D Yermack
What's in it for me? CEOs whose firms are acquired
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 61 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
881
RANK
658,366
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies