Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Selfish Regulators, Transparency, and Misreporting

49 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2017 Last revised: 31 Mar 2020

Aneesh Raghunandan

Yale School of Management

Date Written: March 24, 2020

Abstract

I study how regulators' self-interest affects the transparency of their enforcement regimes and, as a result, misreporting by overseen firms. I use the revolving door from government to the private sector as a natural, commonly-occurring setting that captures self-interest. In this setting I construct a model in which the regulator's desire to revolve or not, as well as the intensity of regulatory enforcement, is private information that the regulator can voluntarily disclose. Uncertainty about the regulator's incentives and regulatory intensity yields a nontrivial partial disclosure equilibrium in which, despite the presence of the revolving door, selective disclosure can lead to lower levels of misreporting. The model provides a lens through which to understand recent empirical work on how regulators with private-sector ambitions behave, and suggests avenues for future empirical research.

Suggested Citation:

Raghunandan, Aneesh, Selfish Regulators, Transparency, and Misreporting (March 24, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3035296 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3035296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Sumit Agarwal , David Lucca , Amit Seru , Francesco Trebbi
Inconsistent Regulators: Evidence from Banking
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , issue 2 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Jeremy Bertomeu , Edwige Cheynel
Toward a Positive Theory of Disclosure Regulation: In Search of Institutional Foundations
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 3 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Jeremy Bertomeu , Robert Magee
From Low Quality Reporting to Financial Crises: Politics of Disclosure Regulation Along the Economic Cycle
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 52 , issue 2 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Jeremy Bertomeu , Robert Magee
Political Pressures and the Evolution of Disclosure Regulation
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 2 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
346
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,342
RANK
198,235
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies