Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Biased Monitors: Corporate Governance When Managerial Ability is Mis-Assessed

NBER Working Paper No. w23776

30 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2017 Last revised: 20 Jun 2025

Benjamin E. Hermalin

University of California, Berkeley; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: September 2017

Abstract

An important aspect of corporate governance is the assessment of managers. When managers vary in ability, determining who is good and who is not is vital. Moreover, knowing they will be assessed can lead those being assessed to behave in ways that make them appear better. Such signal-jamming behavior can be beneficial (e.g., an executive works harder on behalf of shareholders) or harmful (e.g., the behavior is myopic, boosting short-term performance at the expense of long-term success). In standard models of assessment, it is assumed those doing the assessing behave according to Bayes Theorem. But what if the assessors suffer from one of many well-documented cognitive biases that makes them less-than-perfect Bayesians? This paper begins an exploration of that issue by considering the consequence of one such bias, the base-rate fallacy, for two of the canonical assessment models: career-concerns and optimal monitoring and replacement. Although firms can suffer due to the base-rate fallacy, they can also benefit from this bias.

Suggested Citation:

Hermalin, Benjamin E., Biased Monitors: Corporate Governance When Managerial Ability is Mis-Assessed (September 2017). NBER Working Paper No. w23776, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3035111
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Roland Bénabou , Jean Tirole
Identity, Morals, and Taboos: Beliefs as Assets
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 126 , issue 2 , p. 805 - 855 Posted: 2011-05
Morris H Degroot
Optimal Statistical Decisions Posted: 1970
Eugene F Fama
Agency Problems and the Theory of the Firm
Journal of Political Economy , volume 88 , issue 2 , p. 288 - 307 Posted: 1980
Thomas Gilovich
How We Know What Isn't So: The Fallibility of Human Reason in Everyday Life Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,484
RANK
596,846
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies