Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Islamic Governance, National Governance, and Bank Risk Management and Disclosure in MENA Countries

Business & Society, Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2017 Last revised: 20 Oct 2017

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Hussein A. Abdou

Northumbria University; Department of Management, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Date Written: September 12, 2017

Abstract

We examine the relationships among religious governance, especially Islamic governance quality (IGQ), national governance quality (NGQ), and risk management and disclosure practices (RDPs), and consequently ascertain whether NGQ has a moderating influence on the IGQ-RDPs nexus. Using one of the largest datasets relating to Islamic banks from 10 Middle East and North Africa (MENA) countries from 2006 to 2013, our findings are three-fold. First, we find that RDPs are higher in banks with higher IGQ. Second, we find that RDPs are higher in banks from countries with higher NGQ. Finally, we find that NGQ has a moderating effect on the IGQ-RDPs nexus. Our findings are robust to alternative RDPs measures and estimation techniques. These results imply that the quality of disclosure depends on the nature of the macro-social level factors, such as religion that have remained largely unexplored in business and society research, and therefore have important implications for policy-makers.

Keywords: Religion and business, Islamic and National Governance; Risk Management and Disclosure Practices; Neo-institutional Theory; MENA banks

JEL Classification: G21, G32, G34, G38, M48

Suggested Citation:

Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Ntim, Collins G. and Abdou, Hussein A., Islamic Governance, National Governance, and Bank Risk Management and Disclosure in MENA Countries (September 12, 2017). Business & Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3035856
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
A A Abdallah , M K Hassan , P L Mcclelland
Islamic financial institutions, corporate governance, and corporate risk disclosure in Gulf Cooperation Council countries
Journal of Multinational Financial Management , volume 31 , p. 63 - 82 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Abdulrahman , H Abdou , C G Ntim , A A Elamer
Corporate boards, ownership structures and corporate disclosures: Evidence from a developing country
Journal of Applied Accounting Research Posted: 2017
P Abedifar , P Molyneux , A Tarazi
Risk in Islamic banking
Review of Finance , volume 17 , p. 2035 - 2096 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S Abraham , P Cox
Analysing the determinants of narrative risk information in UK FTSE 100 annual reports
British Accounting Review , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 227 - 248 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
31 Citations
Mahmoud Nasr , Collins G. Ntim
Corporate Governance Mechanisms and Accounting Conservatism: Evidence from Egypt
Nasr, Mahmoud and Ntim, Collins G., Corporate Governance Mechanisms and Accounting Conservatism: Evidence from Egypt. Forthcoming in Corporate Governance, (December 1, 2017). · 32 Pages · Posted: 11 Dec 2017 · Last revised: 5 Jan 2018 · Downloads: 323
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yasir Shahab , Collins G. Ntim , Farid Ullah
The Brighter Side of Being Socially Responsible: CSR Ratings and Financial Distress Among Chinese State and Non-State Owned Firms
Applied Economics Letters, Forthcoming · 14 Pages · Posted: 12 Mar 2018 · Downloads: 155
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Ismail Benyazid
The Impact of Risk Committee on Financial Performance of UK Financial Institutions
International Journal of Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming · 30 Pages · Posted: 19 Mar 2018 · Downloads: 557
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rashid Ameer
Voluntary Operational Risk Management Disclosures by Islamic Banks in Muslim Majority Countries
36 Pages · Posted: 18 Aug 2018 · Downloads: 237
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,147
RANK
662,989
31 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies