Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance in Islamic Banks: New Insights for Dual Board Structure and Agency Relationships

Journal of International Financial Markets Institutions and Money, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2017

Hisham Farag

University of Birmingham - Birmingham Business School

Chris Mallin

Norwich Business School, University of East Anglia; University of Birmingham - Birmingham Business School

Kean Ow-Yong

University of Birmingham - Birmingham Business School

Date Written: August 15, 2017

Abstract

We investigate the influence of the dual board structure on the financial performance of Islamic banks. The paper also investigates the unique agency relationships using a sample of 90 Islamic banks across 13 countries over the period 2006-2014. We find that the larger the Shari’ah Supervisory Board (SSB) the better the financial performance and this result reinforces the fundamental role of the SSB to certify permissible financial instruments and products. We also find evidence of the scope of operation hypothesis with respect to both the board of directors and the SSB as Islamic banks are characterised by a higher degree of complex operations. Interestingly, we find that a larger SSB size may result in lower agency costs and that the greater the size of the unrestricted contracts, the higher the agency costs. This implies that unrestricted profit-sharing contracts are one of the main sources of the unique agency relationships in Islamic banks. The paper has a number of policy implications for regulators including the design of governance mechanisms in Islamic banks and the dynamics of unrestricted contracts.

Keywords: Islamic Banks, Shari’ah Supervisory Board, financial performance, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Farag, Hisham and Mallin, Christine and Ow-Yong, Kean, Corporate Governance in Islamic Banks: New Insights for Dual Board Structure and Agency Relationships (August 15, 2017). Journal of International Financial Markets Institutions and Money, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3037471
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
H Daher , M Masih , M Ibrahim
The unique risk exposures of Islamic banks' capital buffers: A dynamic panel data analysis
Journal of International Financial Markets , volume 36 , p. 36 - 52 Posted: 2015
Crossref
C Daily , C Schwenk
Chief executive officers, top management teams and boards of directors: Congruent or countervailing forces
Journal of Management , volume 22 , p. 185 - 208 Posted: 1996
Crossref
C M Daily , D R Dalton , A A Cannella
Corporate governance: Decades of dialogue and data
Management Review , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 371 - 382 Posted: 2003
Crossref
D R Dalton , C M Daily , A E Ellstrand , J L Johnson
Meta-analytic reviews of board composition, leadership structure, and financial performance
Strategic Management Journal , volume 19 , p. 269 - 290 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,431
RANK
580,030
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies