Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Political Economy of Corporate Governance in Developing Economies

HAQUE, F., ARUN, TG., & KIRKPATRICK, C. (2011) The political economy of corporate governance in developing economies: The case of Bangladesh. Research in International Business and Finance 25, 169-182.

33 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2017

Faizul Haque

University of Southampton

Thankom Gopinath Arun

University of Central Lancashire

Colin Kirkpatrick

The University of Manchester - Institute for Development Policy and Management (IDPM)

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

The paper investigates the influence of concentrated shareholding, boardroom politics and interest group politics in the quality of corporate governance in listed firms. It finds that the controlling shareholders exert influence in boardroom politics through family-aligned board and executive management. The evidence shows that concentrated ownership, family-aligned board and management, and political connection(s) of the controlling shareholder(s) tend to be inversely associated with the quality of corporate governance in a firm. The findings of the study suggest that the broad-based interest group politics which influence political preference, and corporate control politics contribute significantly to the current state of corporate governance in developing economies.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Political Economy, Interest Group Politics, Asia, Bangladesh

JEL Classification: G30, K22, K42, L20

Suggested Citation:

Haque, Faizul and Arun, Thankom Gopinath and Kirkpatrick, Colin, The Political Economy of Corporate Governance in Developing Economies (2011). HAQUE, F., ARUN, TG., & KIRKPATRICK, C. (2011) The political economy of corporate governance in developing economies: The case of Bangladesh. Research in International Business and Finance 25, 169-182. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3037919
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Adb
Capacity building of the Securities and Exchange Commission and selected capital market institution. Prepared by the Aries Group (AG), USA under an Asian Development Bank (ADB) funded project. The Philippines Posted: 2003
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L Bebchuk , Z Neeman
A political economy model of investor protection Posted: 2005
Bernard S. Black , Woochan Kim , Hasung Jang , Kyung Suh Park
How Corporate Governance Affects Firm Value: Evidence on Channels from Korea
ECGI - Finance Working Paper No. 103/2005, KDI School of Pub Policy & Management Paper No. 08-19, Northwestern Law & Econ Research Paper No. 09-23, U of Texas Law, Law and Econ Research Paper No. 51, McCombs Research Paper Series No. 01-05 Pages: 53 Posted: 20 Mar 2009 Last revised: 24 Jan 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,421
RANK
658,366
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies