Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Board Characteristics and Sustainable Compensation Policy on Carbon Performance of UK Firms

Haque, F. (2017). The effects of board characteristics and sustainable compensation policy on carbon performance of UK firms. The British Accounting Review, Vol. 49, Issue. 3, pp. 347–364

46 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2017

Faizul Haque

University of Southampton

Date Written: January 31, 2017

Abstract

This study examines the effects of board characteristics and sustainable compensation policy on carbon reduction initiatives and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of a firm. We use firm fixed effect model to analyse data from 256 non-financial UK firms covering a period of 13 years (2002-2014). Our estimation results suggest that board independence and board gender diversity have positive associations with carbon reduction initiatives. In addition, environment-social-governance based compensation policy is found to be positively associated with carbon reduction initiatives. However, we do not find any relationship between corporate governance variables and GHG emissions of a firm. Overall, our evidence suggests that corporate boards and executive management tend to focus on a firm’s process-oriented carbon performance, without improving actual carbon performance in the form of reduced GHG emissions. The findings have important implications for practitioners and policymakers with respects to the effectiveness of internal corporate governance mechanisms in addressing climate change risks, and possible linkage between corporate governance reform and carbon related policies.

Keywords: Carbon reduction initiatives, GHG emissions, board independence, gender diversity, ESG-based compensation

Suggested Citation:

Haque, Faizul, The Effects of Board Characteristics and Sustainable Compensation Policy on Carbon Performance of UK Firms (January 31, 2017). Haque, F. (2017). The effects of board characteristics and sustainable compensation policy on carbon performance of UK firms. The British Accounting Review, Vol. 49, Issue. 3, pp. 347–364, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3037827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
S Ahn , P Jiraporn , Y S Kim
Multiple Directorship and Acquirer Returns
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 34 , issue 9 , p. 2011 - 2026 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S A Al-Tuwaijri , T E Christensen , K E Hughes
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: a simultaneous equations approach
Accounting Organizations and Society , volume 29 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
Crossref
C Arena , S Bozzolan , G Michelon
Environmental Reporting: Transparency to Stakeholder Manipulation? An Analysis of Disclosure Tone and the Role of the Board of Directors
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 22 , p. 346 - 361 Posted: 2015
Crossref
S Bear , N Rahman , C Post
The impact of board diversity and gender composition on corporate social responsibility and firm reputation
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 97 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 221 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
7 Citations
Faizul Haque , Collins G. Ntim
Executive Compensation, Sustainable Compensation Policy, Carbon Performance and Market Value
British Journal of Management, Forthcoming · 42 Pages · Posted: 21 Jan 2020 · Downloads: 605
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Thi Hong Hahn Nguyen , Collins G. Ntim , John Malagila
Women on Corporate Boards and Corporate Financial and Non-financial Performance: A Systematic Literature Review and Future Research Agenda
Nguyen, T.H.H., Ntim, C.G., & Malagila, J. (2020). ‘Women on corporate boards and corporate financial and non-financial performance: A systematic literature review and future research agenda’, International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming., · 60 Pages · Posted: 14 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 482
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dayong Zhang , Zhiwei Zhang , Qiang Ji , Brian M. Lucey , jia liu
Board Characteristics, External Governance and the Use of Renewable Energy: International Evidence From Public Firms
55 Pages · Posted: 20 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 139
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hami Amiraslani , Carolyn Deller , Christopher D. Ittner , Thomas Keusch
Board Risk Oversight and Environmental and Social Performance
Journal of Accounting and Economics, (Forthcoming) · 59 Pages · Posted: 26 Sep 2020 · Last revised: 9 Mar 2025 · Downloads: 1,498
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
470
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,210
RANK
139,743
7 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies