Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Capital Structure in Developing Countries: A Case Study of Bangladesh

HAQUE, F., ARUN, TG., & KIRKPATRICK, C. (2011) Corporate governance and capital structure in developing countries: a case study of Bangladesh. Applied Economics 43, pp. 673-681.

17 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2017

Faizul Haque

University of Southampton

Thankom Gopinath Arun

University of Central Lancashire

Colin Kirkpatrick

The University of Manchester - Institute for Development Policy and Management (IDPM)

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

The paper investigates the influence of firm-level corporate governance on the capital structure pattern of non-financial listed firms using Bangladesh’s case study. The agency theory suggests that better corporate governance will reduce agency costs and improve investors’ confidence, which in turn enhances the firm’s ability to gain access to equity finance, leading to the firm’s less dependence on debt finance. Alternatively, the controlling shareholders of poorly governed firms are likely to prefer debt in order to retain absolute ownership and control rights. The OLS regression framework uses a questionnaire-survey based corporate governance index (CGI). The study results seem to support agency theory, with a statistically significant inverse relationship between corporate governance quality and the total as well as long term debt ratios.

Keywords: Corporate Governance Index, Agency Theory, Debt Finance, Banks, Bangladesh

JEL Classification: G28, G30, G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Haque, Faizul and Arun, Thankom Gopinath and Kirkpatrick, Colin, Corporate Governance and Capital Structure in Developing Countries: A Case Study of Bangladesh (2011). HAQUE, F., ARUN, TG., & KIRKPATRICK, C. (2011) Corporate governance and capital structure in developing countries: a case study of Bangladesh. Applied Economics 43, pp. 673-681., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3037895
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
B S Black , H Jang , W Kim
Does Corporate Governance Predict Firms' Market Value? Evidence from Korea
Finance Working Paper , issue 85 Posted: 2005
Crossref
G Caprio , R Levine
Building the Pillars of Financial Sector Governance: The Roles of the Private and Public Sectors , p. 17 - 50 Posted: 2002
Y Chen , S-Y Hu
The Controlling Shareholder's Personal Leverage and Firm Performance
Applied Economics , volume 39 , p. 1059 - 1075 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A A M U Chowdhury
Capital Structure Determinants: Evidence from Japan and Bangladesh
Dhaka University Journal of Business Studies , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 55 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,606
RANK
318,538
4 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies