Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Social Capital, Risk-Taking and Corporate Policies

Journal of Corporate Finance, Volume 47, December 2017, Pages 46-71

72 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2017 Last revised: 21 Nov 2017

Stephen P. Ferris

University of Missouri at Columbia - Department of Finance

David Javakhadze

Florida Atlantic University

Tijana Rajkovic

San Jose State University

Date Written: September 8, 2017

Abstract

We provide the first direct empirical evidence of the effect of CEO social capital on aggregate corporate risk-taking. Our theory predicts that CEOs with high social capital display higher levels of risk-seeking behavior. Consistent with this prediction, we find a positive association between CEO social capital and aggregate corporate risk-taking. Examining the channel, we show that social ties cause corporate policy actions, and these actions lead to greater volatilities in stock returns and earnings. In addition, we uncover a number of factors that significantly moderate the effects of social capital on risk-taking. We also show that this increase in risk-taking is value-enhancing to the firm. Our results are robust to alternative proxies for risk-taking, alternative model specifications, and tests for endogeneity.

Keywords: Social Capital; Social Networks; Corporate Risk-Taking

JEL Classification: G30; Z13

Suggested Citation:

Ferris, Stephen P. and Javakhadze, David and Rajkovic, Tijana, CEO Social Capital, Risk-Taking and Corporate Policies (September 8, 2017). Journal of Corporate Finance, Volume 47, December 2017, Pages 46-71, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3037281
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Y Hochberg , A Ljungqvist , Y Lu
Whom You Know Matters: Venture Capital Networks And Investment Performance
Journal of Finance , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText , issue 1 Posted: 2010
Bengt Holmstrom , Joan Ricart I Costa
Managerial Incentives And Capital Management
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 101 , p. 835 - 860 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Harry J Holzer
Hiring Procedures in the Firm: Their Economic Determinants and Outcomes
Human Resources and Firm Performance Posted: 1987
Crossref
I Hutton , D Jiang , A Kumar
Corporate Policies of Republican Managers
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 49 , p. 1279 - 1310 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
449
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,327
RANK
147,479
3 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies