Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Gender Diversity, Board Independence and Remuneration Structure on Biodiversity Initiatives of UK Firms

Posted: 19 Sep 2017 Last revised: 5 Nov 2018

Faizul Haque

University of Southampton

Date Written: March 1, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the effects of gender diversity, board independence and incentive-based mechanisms on biodiversity initiatives among 256 non-financial UK firms covering a period from 2002 to 2014. We use fixed effect and logit regression models to analyse overall biodiversity protection initiatives (BPI index) and individual biodiversity indicators. We find gender diversity and environmental-social-governance (ESG)-based compensation policy having positive associations with biodiversity initiatives of a firm, a finding that supports the prediction of the stakeholder theory. We also find that performance-related-pay (PRP) policy and the level of executive compensation have positive associations with BPI, although their relationships with individual biodiversity indicators remain inconclusive. Whilst ESG-based compensation policy seems supportive of a firm’s sustainable environmental strategies, incentive-based mechanisms appear to influence executive management to enhance environmental legitimacy by highlighting biodiversity policies and processes, rather than demonstrating actual biodiversity performance of a firm.

Keywords: Biodiversity, gender diversity, compensation structure, ESG-based compensation, environmental performance

Suggested Citation:

Haque, Faizul, The Impact of Gender Diversity, Board Independence and Remuneration Structure on Biodiversity Initiatives of UK Firms (March 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3037929 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3037929
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,329
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies