Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Lending Standards and Borrower Accounting Conservatism

Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 17-95

59 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2017 Last revised: 13 Mar 2018

Urooj Khan

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Alvis K. Lo

Boston College

Date Written: March 9, 2018

Abstract

Bank lending standards vary over time. Periods in which firms find it relatively easy to borrow are followed by periods in which banks scrutinize borrowers more and tighten lending. We predict that changes in lending standards affect the accounting conservatism of bank-dependent firms. Using (i) a natural experiment that leads to certain banks tightening lending standards for plausibly exogenous reasons, and (ii) time series variation in economy-wide bank lending standards, we find that borrowers increase their asymmetric timely loss recognition in response to the tightening of lending standards. Further, riskier borrowers, borrowers less likely to violate loan covenants, and borrowers whose banks tighten lending standards to a greater extent, display larger increases in conservatism following the tightening of lending standards. These results suggest that borrowers internalize the costs and benefits of increasing conservatism. Finally, borrowers do not seem to decrease conservatism immediately after the lending standards are loosened. Overall, our results illuminate a commonly observed banking phenomenon that can influence firms’ incentives to recognize losses, suggesting that developments in the banking sector can shape the information produced by firms in the real sector.

Keywords: Bank Lending Standards, Conservatism, Debt Contracting, Bank Monitoring, Financial Crises

JEL Classification: D81, D82, G01, G20, G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Urooj and Lo, Alvis K., Bank Lending Standards and Borrower Accounting Conservatism (March 9, 2018). Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 17-95, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3037739 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3037739
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
342
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,207
RANK
200,848
8 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies