Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Control for Sustainable Development of Small Scale Enterprises in Lagos State: A Study of Selected Local Governments

Chapter in the proceedings of the 2017 International Conference on African Entrepreneurship and Innovation for Sustainable Development (AEISD)

9 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2017

Segun Adeniyi

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: July 26, 2017

Abstract

The study examines the influence of internal control system on small scale enterprises sustainable development. The specific objective is to determine the influence of organizational structure and recruitment of personnel in small scale enterprises on their net profit margin. The study adopted survey design. Questionnaires were employed for gathering primary data. The researcher employed the purposive sampling technique in selecting participants for the study. Linear regression technique was employed as the basic statistical tool for data analyses in this study, with the aid of SPSS 20.0 software. We discovered significant relationship between organizational structures and recruitment of personnel in small scale enterprises and net profit margin. We recommend that there should be no fusion of personality between the owner of the business and the business. This will encourage the business owner to have good organization structure. Once there is separation of duties among the personnel, it will induce efficient and effective internal control in the organization.

Keywords: Internal Control, Sustainable Economic Development, Small Scale Entreprises

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Adeniyi, Segun and Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu, Internal Control for Sustainable Development of Small Scale Enterprises in Lagos State: A Study of Selected Local Governments (July 26, 2017). Chapter in the proceedings of the 2017 International Conference on African Entrepreneurship and Innovation for Sustainable Development (AEISD), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3039298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
F K Amadahe
Fundamentals of educational research methods Posted: 2002
M A Aremu
Small and Medium Scale Enterprises As A Means of Employment Generation and Capacity Building In Nigeria
A Paper Presented at the International Conference on Management and Enterprise Development on "Intellectuals and New Strategies for Sustainability Development of the Third World" Held at Conference Center Posted: 2010-10-05
S Campbell , J A Hartcher
Internal Controls for Small Business Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Campbell , J Hartcher
Internal Controls for Small Business
CPA Australia , p. 3 - 17 Posted: 2006-09
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,615
RANK
508,348
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies