Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Overbilling in Hospitals’ Earnings Management Decisions

European Accounting Review (Forthcoming)

Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 18-026

45 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2017

Jonas Heese

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Date Written: September 19, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines the role of overbilling in hospitals’ earnings management choices. Overbilling by hospitals is a form of revenue manipulation that involves misclassifying a patient into a diagnosis-related group that yields higher reimbursement. As overbilling allows hospitals to increase revenues without altering operations, affecting costs, or having to reverse such behavior in the future, I propose and find that overbilling reduces hospitals’ use of managing accruals or cutting discretionary expenditures. Next, I find that hospital managers prefer overbilling to managing accruals (cutting discretionary expenditures) when cutting discretionary expenditures (managing accruals) is constrained, and vice versa. Collectively, my findings suggest that overbilling is an important alternative manipulation tool in hospitals.

Keywords: Overbilling, accrual-based earnings management, real activities manipulation, for-profit hospitals

JEL Classification: I11, I18, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Heese, Jonas, The Role of Overbilling in Hospitals’ Earnings Management Decisions (September 19, 2017). European Accounting Review (Forthcoming), Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 18-026, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3039556 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3039556
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
R Abelson
Posted: 2002
Crossref
Tenet Healthcare says the SEC is looking informally into the fall of Tenet's share price. The New York Times
E J Allen , C R Larson , R G Sloan
Accrual reversals, earnings and stock returns
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 113 - 129 Posted: 2013
Crossref
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Jonas Heese , Ranjani Krishnan , Hari Ramasubramanian
The Department of Justice as a Gatekeeper in Whistleblower-Initiated Corporate Fraud Enforcement: Drivers and Consequences
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming · 55 Pages · Posted: 18 Aug 2018 · Last revised: 18 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 395
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Margit Malmmose , Negin Fouladi
Accounting Facilitating Sociopolitical Aims: The Case of Maryland Hospitals
Financial Accountability & Management, Vol. 35, Issue 4, pp. 413-429, 2019 · 17 Pages · Posted: 20 May 2020 · Downloads: 5
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
402
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,170
RANK
167,622
2 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies