Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Philanthropy and the Cost of Equity Capital

54 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2017 Last revised: 5 Mar 2018

J. Scott Judd

University of Illinois at Chicago

Stephen J. Lusch

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 2, 2018

Abstract

Using the Million Dollar List dataset containing major corporate philanthropic gifts, we examine whether corporate philanthropy is associated with a firm’s cost of equity capital. On one hand, philanthropy is an allocation of shareholder returns to a third party with uncertain returns, thereby increasing business risk. On the other hand, corporate philanthropy may increase public perceptions of the firm resulting in higher and more certain cash flows, decreasing business risk. Given these competing predictions, the effect of corporate philanthropy on the cost of equity is unclear. We find that, on average, when firms make large philanthropic donations, they experience an increase in their cost of capital. However, this effect is mitigated among firms that are able to use corporate giving as a marketing tool and that have lower agency costs. Furthermore, our findings are robust to propensity score matching and Heckman’s two-stage procedure. Overall, our findings suggest that giving large individual gifts negatively affects a firm’s external financing costs.

Keywords: Philanthropy, Cost of Equity Capital, Corporate Reputation, Agency Cost

JEL Classification: M14, G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Judd, Joshua and Lusch, Stephen J., Corporate Philanthropy and the Cost of Equity Capital (March 2, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3040170 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3040170
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
288
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,061
RANK
241,819
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies