Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Attributes and Share Value of Listed Pharmaceutical Firms in Nigeria

Journal of Arts, Science & Commerce, Volume 7, Issue 1(1), January 2016

11 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2017

Mohammed Abba

Modibbo Adama University of Technology

Suleiman Usman

Modibbo Adama University of Technology

Date Written: January 01, 2013

Abstract

The issue of what determines share price of firms generated a lot of arguments among scholars all over the world. Various studies were conducted in an attempt to investigate whether corporate attributes such as firm size, leverage, profitability, liquidity, firm growth among others influence share price of an organization but the findings yielded mixed results. It is on this background that this study examines the impact of corporate attributes on the share price of listed pharmaceutical firms in Nigeria using a panel data of five sampled firms for a period of ten years (2004-2013). The data is extracted from the annual accounts of the selected firms. Multiple regression technique is employed to examine the influence of corporate attributes on the share price of listed pharmaceutical firms in Nigeria. The study reveals that firm size, leverage, profitability and growth have positive and significant relationship with share price implying that they have impact in increasing share price. However, the relationship between liquidity and share price is found to be negative, indicating that liquidity has no influence in enhancing share price of listed pharmaceutical firms in Nigeria. The study therefore, recommended that firm size, leverage, profitability and firm growth should be enhanced in view of their influence in increasing the share price while liquidity should not be given any attention in an effort of rising share price.

Keywords: Corporate attributes, Share value, Profitability, Pharmaceutical firms

Suggested Citation:

Abba, Mohammed and Usman, Suleiman, Corporate Attributes and Share Value of Listed Pharmaceutical Firms in Nigeria (January 01, 2013). Journal of Arts, Science & Commerce, Volume 7, Issue 1(1), January 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3040146
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
B Abdallah
Trends in working capital management and its impacts on firm's profitability and value
Journal of studies and business research Issue , volume 2 Posted: 2012
B Abdallah
The impact of financial structure, financial leverage and profitability on industrial company share value; Applied study on a sample of Saudi industrial companies
Journal of finance and Accounting , volume 5 , issue 1 Posted: 2014
M Abdelkarim
Determinants of Equity Share Price
International Journal of Business and Social Science , volume 5 , issue 1 Posted: 2014
Abu Hasheesh , K
The role of published Accounting Information in predicting of stock prices Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,492
RANK
232,476
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies