Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Is Dead May Never Die: The UK's Influence on EU Company Law

Fordham International Law Journal, Vol. 40, No. 5, 2017

31 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2017

Martin Gelter

Fordham University School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Alexandra Reif

Vienna University of Economics and Business, Department of Business Law

Date Written: September 25, 2017

Abstract

In this symposium article, we attempt to trace the UK’s influence on EC/EU company law harmonization by focusing on a few key areas. Since the establishment of the European Economic Community in the 1960s, company law harmonization has possibly been the area of private law most affected by the EEC/EC/EU. The success of the harmonization program is, however, controversial. Arguably, the frequent antagonism between the UK and its Continental European partners has often been the reason why certain ambitious projects were ultimately not pursued or watered down by compromise. We propose a bifurcated thesis in which we distinguish between company law issues related to capital markets and others. Areas not directly related to capital markets that were the subject of the first wave of company law harmonization attempts include board structure and legal capital. Here, the United Kingdom had a considerable impact, as it was typically on the brakes when Continental Europeans were poised to enact top-down regulation along the lines of German or other Continental European models. The United Kingdom tended to favor freedom of choice in company law, and thus ended up as the primary “user” of the freedom of establishment for companies, which led to the fulfillment of the noble dream of this particular Freedom in spite of Continental objections and fears of a race to the bottom. By contrast, in areas related to capital markets, from the 1990s onwards, the UK became the model jurisdiction on which European harmonization projects were increasingly based. In areas such as takeover law and financial reporting, EU law generally adopted a UK perspective emphasizing transparency and shareholder choice, either as mandatory law, or as a strongly encouraged model for the Member States. Arguably, as a leading capital market the United Kingdom might have had the same impact without even being an EU member. Counterintuitively, depending on the specific area of harmonization, the fact that the United Kingdom was an EU member can thus either be described as important or irrelevant.

Keywords: Brexit, Fifth Directive, Board Structure, Societas Europaea, European Company, Varieties of Capitalism, Legal Capital, Freedom of Establishment, Centros, Takeover Directive, IFRS, Fourth Directive, True and Fair View

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Gelter, Martin and Reif, Alexandra, What Is Dead May Never Die: The UK's Influence on EU Company Law (September 25, 2017). Fordham International Law Journal, Vol. 40, No. 5, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3042828 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3042828
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
Richard W Carney
, volume 3 Posted: 2010
A Peter , Hall &amp; David Soskice
An Introduction to Varieties of Capitalism
VARIETIES OF CAPITALISM, supra note 12 , volume 1 , p. 8 - 9
Social Protection and the Formation of Skills: A Reinterpretation of the Welfare State
VARIETIES OF CAPITALISM, supra note 12 , volume 145 , p. 146 - 147
Crossref
See Erik Berglöf
A Note on the Typology of Financial Systems
COMPARATIVE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE , volume 151 , p. 159 - 164 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,555
RANK
303,587
4 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fordham Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies