Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stakeholder Orientation and Accounting Conservatism: Evidence from State-Level Constituency Statutes

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 3042901

49 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2017 Last revised: 28 Mar 2025

Suresh Radhakrishnan

JSOM, University of Texas at Dallas

Ke Wang

University of Alberta - School of Business

Zheng Wang

City University of Hong Kong

Date Written: February 26, 2025

Abstract

We find that the staggered adoption of state-level constituency statutes leads to a significant decrease in accounting conservatism. Constituency statutes allow directors to consider stakeholder interests when making business decisions, thereby increasing firms’ stakeholder orientation. As firms shift attention to stakeholder interests, stakeholders become less concerned about shareholder expropriation and thus demand less conservatism. Cross-sectional analyses show stronger effects for firms with greater agency conflict between shareholders and nonfinancial stakeholders (i.e., customers, suppliers, and employees) and for firms where shareholders and debtholders have lower demand for conservatism. In additional analyses, we find that the adoption of constituency statutes does allow firms to implement corporate policies that are more friendly to their employees, customers, and suppliers. We also show that the effect of constituency statutes on conservatism still holds when the statutes only cover nonfinancial stakeholders (but not debtholders).

Keywords: stakeholder orientation, accounting conservatism, constituency statutes, customers, suppliers, employees

JEL Classification: M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Radhakrishnan, Suresh and Wang, Ke and Wang, Zheng, Stakeholder Orientation and Accounting Conservatism: Evidence from State-Level Constituency Statutes (February 26, 2025). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, 2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 3042901, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3042901 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3042901
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
E S Adams , J H Matheson
A statutory model for corporate constituency concerns
Emory Law Journal , volume 49 , issue 4 , p. 1085 - 1136 Posted: 2000
C Aghamolla , N Li
Debt contract enforcement and conservatism: Evidence from a natural experiment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 5 , p. 1383 - 1416 Posted: 2018
A K Agrawal , D A Matsa
Labor unemployment risk and corporate financing decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 2 , p. 449 - 470 Posted: 2013
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
815
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,682
RANK
69,306
8 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies