Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Combination of Strategic Management Accounting Implementation, Organizational Culture, and Human Resource Accounting Capabilities on Sustainable Competitive Advantage: Literature Review on Thai Traditional Puppetry Businesses

PSAKU International Journal of Interdisciplinary Research (PSAKUIJIR), Vol. 6, No. 1, (2017)

12 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2017

Pitachaya Kaneko

Rajamangala University of Technology Phra Nakhon

Sarayuth Yimruan

Rajamangala University of Technology Phra Nakhon

Date Written: January 1, 2017

Abstract

This article aims to (1) study history and trend of human resource accounting and strategic management accounting and (2) represent new model for sustainable competitive advantage by focus on combination of strategic management accounting Implementation, organizational culture which related national culture, and human resource accounting capabilities, literature review from Thai Traditional Puppet Businesses. It employed archival research from 122 academic journals from RMUTP database and some case study of Thai traditional puppetry businesses. The results explain that Thai traditional puppet business performance that has long history and modified their strategic management accounting (SMA) to survival competitive advantage with one stop service entertaining business with network connection. SMA has long history and development techniques used more than 40 years which has impact on firm performance. This research defined strategic management accounting implementation as ability to use new skills and tools for strategic positioning characterized, co-operate strategic, strategic decision performance, managerial accounting orientation, marketing orientation and strategy for increasing firm performance. Human resource accounting capabilities is one of antecedent factors, and it helps to measure the value of employees, which helps the management take vital decisions related to human resources in order to increase production and connection. This paper derived three dimensions (efficiency of human resource development; systems; and quality of outcomes). It is the most factors to help firm performance and long survival firm from generation to generation which explain value added of firms. Human resource accounting capabilities will reach target goals when it reflects their business policy, thus organization is a one factor in this model. Finally we combined a new model for explain sustainable competitive advantage of Thai puppet businesses by focusing on long-term strategy and organization culture in Thai puppetry businesses. Future research, we will employ in-depth interview participants including regulators in qualitative research and using structural equation model to confirm model.

Keywords: Strategic Management Accounting Implementation, Organizational Culture, Human Resource Accounting Capabilities, Sustainable Competitive Advantage

Suggested Citation:

Kaneko, Pitachaya and Yimruan, Sarayuth, Combination of Strategic Management Accounting Implementation, Organizational Culture, and Human Resource Accounting Capabilities on Sustainable Competitive Advantage: Literature Review on Thai Traditional Puppetry Businesses (January 1, 2017). PSAKU International Journal of Interdisciplinary Research (PSAKUIJIR), Vol. 6, No. 1, (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3042139
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
American Accounting Committee of Accounting for Human Resources
The Accounting Review Supplement to , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText Posted: 1973
C Amornwattana
Study Comparing Factors Affecting on Strategic Management Effectiveness: Case Study of Low IT Manufacturing Firms and High IT Manufacturing Firms
Business Administration Thammasat University , volume 33 , issue 125 , p. 46 - 78 Posted: 2010
T Arkan
Human Resources Accounting: A Suggested Model for Measurement and Valuation. Department of Economics
Finanse, Rynki Finansowe, Ubezpieczenia , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 173 - 193 Posted: 2016
Crossref
B Becker , M Huselid , D Ulrich
The HR Scorecard: Linking People, Strategy, and Performance Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
290
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,758
RANK
240,099
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies