Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partner Disclosure in an Environment of a Second Alleged Audit Failure: Remediating the Smoking Gun in Negligence Cases

Posted: 27 Sep 2017

Michael J. Mowchan

Baylor University

Philip Reckers

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 24, 2017

Abstract

Recently, the SEC approved a new rule which requires audit firms to disclose the name of the engagement partners (EPs) responsible for audits, thus allowing stakeholders, for the first time to associate not just audit firms, but also specific audit partners, with past audit failures. Plaintiffs are unlikely to ignore the potential influence of this information in alleged audit failure lawsuits in instances of a partner’s second association with audit failure. In light of this, audit firms may find it prudent to undertake substantive actions to avoid a recurrence by the same partner and/or to reduce perceived culpability if a recurrence occurs. Thus, in this study, we investigate how selected audit firms’ compensating actions after a first partner failure (allowing subsequently, specific courtroom defensive tactics) impact negligence assessments and damage awards, in those subsequent second civil action lawsuits. We also examine interactions with selected juror attributes (e.g., education, impulsivity and age) that extensive prior research suggests influence negligence judgments. We find that overall one defensive tactic emerges as best, that more educated jurors render more auditor favorable judgments (except in the one best tactic condition), and that juror’s impulsivity interacts with the two audit firm’s non-optimal remedial actions with preference inversions (i.e., significant ranking differences). Our results are the first to examine in an era of engagement partner disclosure how audit firm responses to past failures incrementally affect future audit firm liability. Our research leverages multiple relevant literatures in attribution theory, impression management, organizational impression management and scientific jury selection, as well as past accounting jury studies.

Keywords: Form AP, Engagement Partner Disclosure, Negligence, Lawsuits, Remedial Tactics

Suggested Citation:

Mowchan, Michael J. and Reckers, Philip, Audit Partner Disclosure in an Environment of a Second Alleged Audit Failure: Remediating the Smoking Gun in Negligence Cases (September 24, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3043160
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,384
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies