Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Leverage, Dividend Policy, Profitability and Market Value Relationships: A Case of Nepalese Commercial Banks

17 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2017

Prof. Dr. Radhe Shyam Pradhan

Central Dept. of Management, Tribhuvan University; Uniglobe College

Shraddha Shrestha

Independent

Date Written: January 15, 2017

Abstract

This study examines the relationship among leverage, dividend policy, profitability and market value in the context of Nepalese commercial banks. The dependent variables are value of commercial banks defined in terms of dividend per share and market price per share. The independent variables are earnings per share, price earnings ratio, book value per share, return on assets, debt to equity, size and taxes are taken as independent variables. The data are collected from various issues of Banking and Financial Statistics and Bank Supervision Report published by Nepal Rastra Bank and annual reports of selected commercial banks. The study is based on 14 commercial banks of Nepal for the period of 2003 to 2014 leading to the total of 168 observations. The regression models are estimated to test the significance and importance of effect of leverage, dividend policy and profitability on value of Nepalese commercial banks.

The result shows positive relationship of dividend per share with bank size, earning per share, financial leverage. This means that increase in bank size, earning per share and financial leverage lead to increase in dividend per share. Likewise, the results also shows that there is positive relationship of dividend per share with reserve and surplus, return on assets and tax liabilities indicating that higher the reserve, return on assets and tax liabilities, higher would be the dividend per share. Similarly, market price per share is positively related to earning per share, reserve and financial leverage. It indicates that increase in dividend per share, earning per share, reserve and financial leverage leads to increase in the market price per share. The beta coefficients are significant for size and reserve with dividend per share. Likewise, the beta coefficient is significant for leverage with market price per share.

Keywords: Dividend per Share, Market Price per Share, Bank Size, Earning Price per Share, Return on Assets and Book Value per Share

Suggested Citation:

Pradhan, Prof. Dr. Radhe Shyam and Pradhan, Prof. Dr. Radhe Shyam and Shrestha, Shraddha, Leverage, Dividend Policy, Profitability and Market Value Relationships: A Case of Nepalese Commercial Banks (January 15, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3044011 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3044011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
S Adediran , &amp; S Alade
Dividend policy and corporate performance in Nigeria
Americal Journal of Social and Management Sciences , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 77 Posted: 2013
H N Al-Malkawi
Determinants of corporate dividend policy in Jordan:an application of the Tobit model
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 44 - 70
D Al-Kuwari
Determinants of the dividend policy of companies listed on emerging stock exchanges: The case of the gulf cooperation council (GCC) countries
Global Economy & Finance Journal , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 38 - 63 Posted: 2009
R Ambarish , K John , &amp; J Williams
Efficient signaling with dividends and investments
The Journal of Finance , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 321 - 343 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
593
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,677
RANK
104,732
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies