Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overbidding in Mergers and Acquisitions: An Accounting Perspective

49 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2017 Last revised: 17 Apr 2020

Eli Bartov

NYU Stern School of Business

Agnes Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; University of Oklahama

Hong Wu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 7, 2020

Abstract

Does accounting regime play a role in the well-documented phenomenon of overbidding in M&As? The 2001 regulatory change from a goodwill amortization to a non-amortization regime (SFAS 142) affords us a quasi-experimental setting for testing the consequences of M&A accounting rules for acquirers’ bidding decisions. Relying on a novel approach to modeling optimal bidding, our primary finding indicates a significant increase in overbidding in the post-2001 period, suggesting that M&A accounting has real consequences for bidding decisions, and that this result is robust to a battery of sensitivity tests. In addition, supplementary tests show that overbidding is more pronounced in pooling versus purchase transactions, and that the accounting regime’s implications for overbidding and acquisition premium are distinct. Overall, our findings shed light on the role accounting plays in shaping managerial decisions—and ultimately shareholder wealth—in an important corporate setting. They may thus inform researchers, corporate boards, and standards setters.

Keywords: Overbidding, Mergers and Acquisitions, Goodwill, SFAS No. 141, SFAS No. 142

JEL Classification: M41, G34

Suggested Citation:

Bartov, Eli and Cheng, Agnes and Wu, Hong, Overbidding in Mergers and Acquisitions: An Accounting Perspective (April 7, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3044158 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3044158
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik , M Williams
Purchase versus pooling in stock-for-stock acquisitions: Why do firms care?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 261 - 286 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M C Jensen , W H Meckling
Theory of the firm: managerial behavior, agency costs and ownership structure
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 305 - 360 Posted: 1976
Crossref
V Krishna
Auction Theory, Second Edition Posted: 2010
K K Li , R G Sloan
Has goodwill accounting gone bad?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 964 - 1003 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
739
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,001
RANK
78,944
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies