Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Jurisdictional Competition for Corporate Charters and Firm Value: A Reexamination of the Delaware Effect

International Journal of Disclosure and Governance, Forthcoming

Posted: 30 Sep 2017 Last revised: 6 Oct 2017

Anne M. Anderson

University of Arizona

Jill A. Brown

Bentley University

Parveen P. Gupta

Lehigh University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 28, 2017

Abstract

In this paper, we analyze the Delaware incorporation effect on firm value to determine if the positive association found by Daines (2001) still holds. Analyzing a sample from 1997 to 2013, we find that the relationship between Delaware incorporation and firm value is no longer positive, as found by Daines, and is in fact negative and significantly different from zero. In addition, we find that this negative relationship holds even after controlling for the effects of Sarbanes Oxley, the Financial Crisis, and foreign incorporations. We attribute this change to increasing charter competition, both within and outside of the United States. However, in line with current governance trends, we propose that Delaware's popularity may be rooted in director primacy arguments that support Delaware as a state where directors perceive they have autonomy and discretion through the Chancery Court system.

Keywords: Delaware Incorporation, Firm Value, Jurisdictional Competition

JEL Classification: G30, K20, L25

Suggested Citation:

Anderson, Anne M. and Brown, Jill A. and Gupta, Parveen P., Jurisdictional Competition for Corporate Charters and Firm Value: A Reexamination of the Delaware Effect (September 28, 2017). International Journal of Disclosure and Governance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3044732
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,055
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies