Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Future of Corporate Residency

Bar Ilan University Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 18-14

33 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2017 Last revised: 7 Jan 2018

Tsilly Dagan

University of Oxford, Faculty of Law

Date Written: September 29, 2017

Abstract

Globalization and tax competition challenge residence base taxation of corporations, by pushing states to offer competitive “deals” in order to attract corporate-residents. This paper will describe this process and ask whether states could regain their power to tax corporations on a residence-basis through multilateral cooperation. It will argue that the history of cooperation on international tax among states raises some serious doubts, not only regarding the attainability and sustainability of such cooperation, but also regarding its desirability.

The paper will start with a very brief review of the process of corporations gaining independence from the state turning them from chartered organizations reigned by the political institutions of the state into independent market actors. It will then consider the seemingly inverse process of the rationale for income taxation shifting from a market based logic of benefit taxation to a political rationale of taxation based on membership in (and commitment to) a political community. Both these processes burden the ability of states to benefit from the profits of corporations. Globalization and tax competition, the paper goes on to argue, present further challenges for the taxation of corporations. Tax competition not only marketizes the relationships between states and their corporate-taxpayers, but also fragmentizes it — allowing taxpayers to pick and choose among various features of the different jurisdictions, thus seriously undermining the ability of states to collect taxes from such MNEs. The paper will conclude by discussing whether cooperation among states could offer a solution, arguing that such cooperation is not only extremely hard to attain and sustain, but also not necessarily desirable.

Suggested Citation:

Dagan, Tsilly, The Future of Corporate Residency (September 29, 2017). Bar Ilan University Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 18-14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3045134 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3045134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
200
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,692
RANK
347,387
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bar-Ilan University Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies