Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Multi-Method Analysis of the PCAOB’s Relationship With the Audit Profession

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

Posted: 2 Oct 2017 Last revised: 14 May 2020

Matthew Ege

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Phillip T. Lamoreaux

Arizona State University

Eldar Maksymov

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 27, 2020

Abstract

Responsive regulation (RR) theory posits that effective regulators enforce compliance by escalating penalties only if persuasion fails, otherwise risking formation of a culture of resentment. Using RR theory as a lens, we examine the interactions between large audit firms and the PCAOB during the initial years of PCAOB regulation, when annually-inspected auditors utilized negative tone within their inspection response letters to express public disagreement with their inspection reports. Consistent with our expectations, we find that negative tone within response letters is positively associated with (1) future Part I inspection findings that result in a restatement of a client’s financial statements and (2) the likelihood that Part II of a future inspection report will be publicly disclosed. We triangulate these results and the underlying theory in semi-structured interviews of eight PCAOB inspectors and six audit partners involved in these early interactions between the largest firms and the PCAOB. Consistent with RR theory, the PCAOB viewed public disagreement as indicators of noncompliance, incorporated public disagreement into subsequent inspections, and escalated penalties for noncompliance. Contrary to RR theory’s prescriptions, the PCAOB did not use persuasion as a first reaction to noncompliance. In response, the firms stopped publicly disagreeing, but may have formed a culture of resentment toward the PCAOB.

Keywords: PCAOB, Audit Regulation, Auditor Inspections, Responsive Regulation Theory

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ege, Matthew and Knechel, Warren Robert and Lamoreaux, Phillip T. and Maksymov, Eldar M., A Multi-Method Analysis of the PCAOB’s Relationship With the Audit Profession (March 27, 2020). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3045223 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3045223
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,133
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies