Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Director Networks, Turnover, and Appointments

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 534/2017

44 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2017 Last revised: 24 Apr 2018

Luc Renneboog

Tilburg University - Department of Finance

Yang Zhao

Newcastle University

Date Written: April 2018

Abstract

This paper analyzes the labor market (turnover and appointments) of executive and non-executive directors by means of social network methodology. We find that directors with strong networks are able to obtain labor market information that enables them to leave their firm more easily for better opportunities. Networks also mitigate information asymmetry problems of external director appointments. Furthermore, the strong impact of indirect connections is in line with the ‘strength of the weak ties’ theory. The fact that direct connections are less important signifies that the connections to people that are close and local are likely to convey redundant information, whereas connections to distant individuals are more efficient in terms of information acquisition and labor market performance improvement.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Director Networks, Director Turnover, Director Appointments

JEL Classification: G34, J4, L14

Suggested Citation:

Renneboog, Luc and Zhao, Yang, Director Networks, Turnover, and Appointments (April 2018). European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 534/2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3045221 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3045221
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
J Aharony , C Liu , A Yawson
Corporate litigation and executive turnover
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 34 , p. 268 - 292 Posted: 2015
Crossref
G A Ballinger , R Cross , B C Holtom
The right friends in the right places: Understanding network structure as a predictor of voluntary turnover
Journal of Applied Psychology , volume 101 , issue 4 Posted: 2016
Crossref
A Barnea , I Guedj
Director Networks
EFA 2007 Ljubljana Meetings Paper Posted: 2009
K A Borokhovich , R Parrino , T Trapani
Outside directors and CEO selection
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 337 - 355 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
288
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,387
RANK
241,819
5 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies