Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Companies with Effective Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting Benefit from Sarbanes–Oxley Sections 302 and 404?

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, 2018, Vol. 33(2), 200-227

Posted: 2 Oct 2017 Last revised: 1 Apr 2018

Parveen P. Gupta

Lehigh University - Department of Accounting

Heibatollah Sami

Lehigh University

Haiyan Zhou

University of Texas - Pan American

Date Written: October 6, 2017

Abstract

Post-SOX (Sarbanes–Oxley Act) academic research on internal control focuses on the characteristics of publicly listed companies disclosing material control weaknesses or the consequences experienced by these companies. However, to date, limited research has empirically examined whether these new disclosures truly enhance “public interest” by promoting “equity” in the capital markets through enhanced information distribution. In this article, we empirically investigate the impact these disclosures have on information asymmetry and related market micro-structure. We hypothesize that both the management’s and the auditor’s reporting on internal control provide outside investors additional and higher quality information about a firm’s future prospects, thereby reducing the information asymmetry in capital markets. Such reduction in information asymmetry should be reflected in decreased bid-ask spreads and price volatility, as well as increased trading volume. Our cross-sectional analyses show that, subsequent to the management’s report on internal control per Section 302, the information environment improves for U.S. firms as manifested by decreased bid-ask spread and price volatility, and increased trading volume. However, we find no similar results subsequent to the auditors’ reporting on a company’s internal control over financial reporting. In our time-series intervention analyses, about 70% of sample firms have experienced significant and permanent reductions in their bid-ask spreads subsequent to the implementation of Section 302 of SOX, in contrast to only 30% of firms subsequent to the implementation of Section 404 of SOX. Our findings point to the public policy issue of whether financial reporting quality of public companies can be improved at a lower cost.

Keywords: Sarbanes-Oxley Act, SOX Section 303, SOX Section 404, Internal Controls, Information Environment, Bid-Ask Spreads

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Parveen P. and Sami, Heibatollah and Zhou, Haiyan, Do Companies with Effective Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting Benefit from Sarbanes–Oxley Sections 302 and 404? (October 6, 2017). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, 2018, Vol. 33(2), 200-227, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3045882
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,357
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies