Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Heaping on Dividends: The Role of Dividend Size and Information Uncertainty

29 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2017

Keith Jakob

University of Montana - Department of Accounting and Finance

Yoonsoo Nam

Clemson University - Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business - Department of Finance

Date Written: August 14, 2016

Abstract

In this paper we contribute to a line of literature that examines behavioral biases that impact important corporate decisions. Our paper builds on prior articles that examine heaping or rounding of EPS forecasts. Herrmann and Thomas (2005), Bamber, Hui and Yeung (2010) and Dechow and You (2012) observe that firm managers and analysts systematically round EPS forecasts. They also find more rounding for EPS forecasts with larger magnitude, and when management or analysts face higher levels of information uncertainty. In this study we examine whether dividend policy is also affected by rounding and the heaping heuristic. The previous literature that examines heaping related to corporate earnings focuses on heaping in earnings forecasts, however our study focuses on heaping in actual distributed dividends that directly impact key firm characteristics such as firm capital structure, investor returns and overall firm performance. From 1926 through 2015 we report 51.40% of dividends are heaped. In the earlier years, dividends are almost always heaped, but heaping declines through time. In some years 100% of quarterly dividends are heaped. We find heaping is significantly related to dividend size, and the level of information uncertainty faced by firm management. Of the uncertainty metrics, inverted firm size has the strongest relation with the likelihood of heaping. We also observe that heaped dividends are altered less frequently, and when there is a dividend change to a previously heaped dividend it is more often an increase or decrease to another heaped amount.

Keywords: Heaping, Dividends, Dividend Size, Information Uncertainty

JEL Classification: G03, G35

Suggested Citation:

Jakob, Keith and Nam, Yoonsoo, Heaping on Dividends: The Role of Dividend Size and Information Uncertainty (August 14, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3047881 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3047881
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,534
RANK
487,089
2 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies