Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An International Study of Internal Audit Function Quality

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2017

Like Jiang

University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics

Paul André

University of Bristol Business School

Chrystelle Richard

ESSEC Business School

Date Written: October 4, 2017

Abstract

We investigate organisational and environmental factors that influence firms’ incentives to develop high-quality internal audit functions (IAFs) by using a unique international sample formed by matching proprietary data from a global internal auditor survey with public data obtained from Worldscope. Concerning organizational factors, we find that a positive relationship exists between IAF quality and firm complexity and confirm that complex firms have a higher demand for monitoring and advising and, therefore, a greater need for formal controls. In addition, IAF quality is positively related to board monitoring and audit committee diligence but negatively associated with CEO power, which suggests that IAF quality is influenced by other key players in corporate governance. Regarding environmental factors, we document that IAF quality is positively associated with industry competition, which implies that a firm’s incentive for a high-quality IAF is enhanced when confronted with greater environmental uncertainty. Furthermore, IAF quality has a significantly positive relationship with our self-constructed index of IAF requirements included in national corporate governance codes, which indicates that strong home-country corporate governance codes play a role in fostering IAF development.

Keywords: Internal Audit Function, Internal Audit Quality, Corporate Governance, CBOK 2010

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Like and Andre, Paul and Richard, Chrystelle, An International Study of Internal Audit Function Quality (October 4, 2017). Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3047900
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
D C Hay , W R Knechel , N Wong
Audit fees: a meta-analysis of the effect of supply and demand attributes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 141 - 191 Posted: 2006
Crossref
B E Hermalin
Trends in corporate governance
Journal of Finance , volume 60 , issue 5 , p. 2351 - 2384 Posted: 2005
Crossref
B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
Endogenously chosen boards of directors and their monitoring of the CEO
American Economic Review , volume 88 , issue 1 , p. 96 - 118 Posted: 1998
U Hoitash , R Hoitash , J C Bedard
Corporate governance and internal control over financial reporting: a comparison of regulatory regimes
Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 839 - 867 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,569
RANK
276,216
1 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies