Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do the Burdens to Being Public Affect the Investment and Innovation of Newly Public Firms?

50 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2017 Last revised: 5 Jul 2019

Michael Dambra

University at Buffalo (SUNY) - School of Management

Matthew Gustafson

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Date Written: July 3, 2019

Abstract

We examine how the regulatory burdens affect the investment and innovation of newly public firms. To do so, we exploit the Jumpstart our Business Start-up (JOBS) Act, which eliminates certain disclosure, auditing, and governance requirements for a subset of newly public firms. Firms treated with these reduced burdens invest more and more efficiently after going public relative to untreated firms. These findings are concentrated in innovative investments, are accompanied by treated firms being less prone to cater to short-term earnings benchmarks, and are non-existent in dual class firms. We conclude that one reason the burdens to being public affect investment and innovation is because they divert resources away from long-run value increasing investments.

Keywords: JOBS Act, Investment, IPO, Disclosure, Sarbanes-Oxley

JEL Classification: G31, G38, M48, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dambra, Michael and Gustafson, Matthew, Do the Burdens to Being Public Affect the Investment and Innovation of Newly Public Firms? (July 3, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3047271 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3047271
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
17 Citations
David Florysiak , Alexander Schandlbauer
Experts or Charlatans? ICO Analysts and White Paper Informativeness
Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming · 76 Pages · Posted: 29 Oct 2018 · Last revised: 22 Mar 2022 · Downloads: 1,496
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Gabriele Lattanzio , William L. Megginson , Ali Sanati
Dissecting the Listing Gap: Mergers, Private Equity, or Regulation?
Journal of Financial Markets, Forthcoming · 75 Pages · Posted: 21 Feb 2019 · Last revised: 12 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 1,508
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Attila Balogh , Usha Creedy , Danika J. Wright
Time to acquire: Regulatory burden and M&A activity
International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming · 54 Pages · Posted: 4 Mar 2020 · Last revised: 14 Jan 2022 · Downloads: 183
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Craig M. Lewis , Joshua T. White
Deregulating Innovation Capital: The Effects of the JOBS Act on Biotech Startups
Review of Corporate Finance Studies, forthcoming · 74 Pages · Posted: 15 Jul 2020 · Last revised: 15 Nov 2022 · Downloads: 456
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
493
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,829
RANK
131,892
17 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies