Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Selection and Investment Risk

35 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2017 Last revised: 1 Aug 2018

Benjamin W. Hoffman

Cleveland State University

Trung Pham

Kent State University - College of Business Administration

Mai Dao

University of Toledo - College of Business Administration

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 1, 2018

Abstract

Purpose: This paper investigates the relation between the riskiness of a firm’s investment policies and the firm’s appointment of an external auditor.

Design/Methodology/Approach: Using a sample of U.S. publicly listed companies from 2004- 2014, we hypothesize that firms with riskier investment policies are more likely to choose a higher quality auditor to reduce information asymmetry and increase the credibility of financial reports. We use logit regression analysis, applying two measures of auditor quality (Big 4 and industry specialist auditors) and four measures of investment policy risk (research and development expenditure, diversification, capital expenditures, and acquisitions).

Findings: We generally find that firms with riskier investment policies choose higher quality auditors. Specifically, firms with higher R&D expenditures and acquisitions are more likely to hire a Big 4 and/or industry specialist auditor, while firms with lower capital expenditures are more likely to select a Big 4 auditor.

Practical Implications: Our findings support the notion that management characteristics and policies still may have influence over external auditor selection. This may be of interest to regulators and policymakers.

Originality/Value: There is only limited research examining the effect of a firm’s investment policies on that firm’s decision

Keywords: Auditor choice, investment risk, auditor quality

Suggested Citation:

Hoffman, Benjamin W. and Pham, Trung and Dao, Mai, Auditor Selection and Investment Risk (June 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3047610 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3047610
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
L J Abbott , S Parker
Auditor selection and audit committee characteristics
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2000
Crossref
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Agrawal , G N Mandelker
Managerial incentives and corporate investment and financing decision
The Journal of Finance , volume 42 , issue 4 , p. 823 - 837 Posted: 1987
Crossref
E D Almer , D R Philbrick , K H Rupley
What drives auditor selection?
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 26 - 42 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,519
RANK
317,057
1 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies