Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Incremental Value Relevance of Media Coverage of Earnings Announcements: Evidence from the Trading of Short Sellers

Forthcoming, Accounting Horizons

49 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2017 Last revised: 21 Jan 2021

Lynn L. Rees

Utah State University - School of Accountancy; Utah State University - Huntsman School of Business

Brady J. Twedt

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 29, 2020

Abstract

We investigate the relation between media coverage and the trading behavior of short sellers around earnings announcements. Prior research provides conflicting evidence on the role of the media, with some studies finding that the media can impede the price discovery process. Our evidence indicates that short sellers increase their activity in line with the tone of media coverage around earnings announcements, after controlling for earnings news and other factors that affect relative levels of short selling. Furthermore, we show that information in the media successfully forecasts earnings information in the days leading up to the earnings announcement, and that short sellers trade in a manner consistent with information reflected in media coverage preceding the earnings announcement. Our findings are consistent with information contained in the media having value relevance, and suggest that the media may help to facilitate the price discovery process around the release of earnings.

Suggested Citation:

Rees, Lynn L. and Twedt, Brady J., The Incremental Value Relevance of Media Coverage of Earnings Announcements: Evidence from the Trading of Short Sellers (December 29, 2020). Forthcoming, Accounting Horizons, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3047383 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3047383
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
S E Christophe , M G Ferri , J Hsieh
Informed trading before analyst downgrades: Evidence from short sellers
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 95 , p. 85 - 106 Posted: 2010
Crossref
K H Chung , H Zhang
A simple approximation of intraday spreads using daily data
The Journal of Financial Markets , volume 17 , p. 94 - 120 Posted: 2014
Crossref
W M Cready , A Kumas , M Subasi
Are trade size-based inferences about traders reliable? Evidence from institutional earnings-related trading
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , issue 4 , p. 877 - 909 Posted: 2014
Crossref
T L Dang , F Moshirian , B Zhang
Commonality in news around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 116 , issue 1 , p. 82 - 110 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
367
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,176
RANK
185,725
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies