Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
East, West, Home’s Best: Do Local CEOs Behave Less Myopically?

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

61 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2017 Last revised: 7 May 2019

Shufang Lai

Southern University of Science and Technology

Zengquan Li

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - School of Accountancy

Yong George Yang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Faculty of Business Administration

Date Written: October 3, 2017

Abstract

We test whether CEOs working near their childhood homes (i.e., local CEOs) are less likely than nonlocal CEOs to make myopic investment decisions. Place attachment theories suggest that people develop mutual caretaking relationships with their birthplaces. In addition, executive labor markets face less information asymmetry about local CEOs, resulting lower pressure on local CEOs for quick profits. Consistent with the prediction, we find that local CEOs are less likely to cut R&D expenditures for beating analyst forecasts or avoiding earnings decreases. These results are corroborated by the finding that in their last year of office local CEOs are significantly less likely to cut R&D than nonlocal CEOs. The CEO locality effect is stronger when more local business interests are embedded in the firm, i.e., when the firm’s business is more concentrated in the CEO’s birth state and the residents of the CEO’s birth state have a higher inclination to invest in local firms. The effect is also more significant when the residents of the CEO’s birth state have stronger local social bond, i.e., when the state has lower population mobility and more social capital. Local CEOs’ longer horizons are consistently manifested in their other decisions such as paying more state tax and being more socially responsible in business operation.

Keywords: Local CEO, Corporate Myopia, Short-Termism

JEL Classification: G00, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lai, Shufang and Li, Zengquan and Yang, Yong George, East, West, Home’s Best: Do Local CEOs Behave Less Myopically? (October 3, 2017). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3047568 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3047568
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 249 - 275
Crossref
T Ladika , Z Sautner
Managerial short-termism and investment: Evidence from accelerated option vesting. Working paper Posted: 2018
D F Larcker , T O Rusticus
On the use of instrumental variables in accounting research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue 3 , p. 186 - 205 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S M Low , I Altman
Place attachment: A conceptual inquiry in Place Attachment
Human Behavior and Environment: Advances in Theory and Research , volume 12 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,463
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,563
RANK
30,149
2 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies