Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Developments in Algeria: The Road to IFRS

International Research Journal of Applied Finance, Vol. IV(1), p. 124-142, January 2013

Posted: 4 Oct 2017

Fethi Saidi

Qatar University, College of Business and Economics, Department of Accounting and IS

Date Written: January 2013

Abstract

Developing and emerging countries are progressively embracing globalization and implementing International Financial Reporting Standards. This study seeks to analyze how Algeria initiated the transformational processes of its local accounting practice to meet the International Financial Reporting Standards. The study is primarily qualitative in nature and based on data gathered primarily from archival sources. The main focus of the present study is threefold in nature. Firstly, is to highlight the unique context in which Algeria is converging to IFRS, characterized mainly by the colonial and centrally planned economy background. Secondly, after the analysis of the flaws of the old accounting system, the main features and benefits of the new IFRS compliant financial accounting system (hereinafter, NFAS) are outlined. Thirdly, the issues and challenges related to the implementation of IFRS in an emerging country such as Algeria are investigated and explained in-depth. This study suggests first that a more careful approach should be adopted when carrying out a transformation of the accounting system of a country that used to live under a centrally planned economy for more than five decades. Secondly, it stresses on the urgent need to develop an appropriate regulatory environment to enforce the application of the new financial accounting system and to bring all the concerned stakeholders to embrace the requirements of the new accounting era. Thirdly, all the challenges facing the adequate implementation of NFAS must be seriously recognized and resolved in order to benefit fully from this historical shift in the Algerian accounting practice.

Keywords: PCN, Algeria, IFRS, Nouveau Plan Financier et Comptable, IFRS, Convergence, Algeria, Accounting Reform, Accounting in Developing Countries

Suggested Citation:

Saidi, Fethi, Accounting Developments in Algeria: The Road to IFRS (January 2013). International Research Journal of Applied Finance, Vol. IV(1), p. 124-142, January 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3047020
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
880
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies