Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Corporate Pension Plans Affect Audit Pricing?

Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2017 Last revised: 24 Nov 2017

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Rui Ge

Shenzhen University & Audencia Business School

Leon Zolotoy

University of Melbourne - Melbourne Business School

Date Written: September 27, 2017

Abstract

We examine whether corporate pension plans of client firms (hereafter, clients) influence auditors’ decisions on audit pricing for the clients in the U.S. We find that, on average, auditors charge higher fees for auditing financial statements of client firms sponsoring defined benefits (DB) pension plans than matched firms without DB pension plans. Moreover, we find that the effect of DB pension plans on audit fees is stronger when clients’ earnings are more sensitive to DB pension estimates, or when managers’ compensation induces more risk taking. Finally, we find that the additional audit fees charged for clients with DB pension plans are negatively associated with the extent of manipulations of DB pension accounting estimates. Collectively, our findings suggest that auditors consider managers’ incentive to manipulate earnings and increase audit effort to reduce audit risk associated with DB pension accounting, which results in higher audit fees.

Keywords: Pension Plans, Audit Pricing, Audit Effort, Audit Risk, Earnings Management.

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yangyang and Ge, Rui and Zolotoy, Leon, Do Corporate Pension Plans Affect Audit Pricing? (September 27, 2017). Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3047593
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
H An , Y W Lee , T Zhang
Do corporations manage earnings to meet/exceed analyst forecasts? Evidence from pension plan assumption changes
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 698 - 735 Posted: 2014
Crossref
C Armstrong , F Larcker , G Ormazabal , D Taylor
The relation between equity incentives and misreporting: The role of risk-taking incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 350 Posted: 2013
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , Jr , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball
Market and political/regulatory perspectives on the recent accounting scandals
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 323 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,206
RANK
580,030
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies