Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Differences in Audit Pricing between Voluntary and Mandatory Audits

Academia-Revista Latinoamericana de Administración, 31 (2), 336-359.

45 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2017 Last revised: 10 Sep 2018

Juan L. Gandía

University of Valencia - Department of Accounting

David Huguet

University of Valencia - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 5, 2017

Abstract

Purpose: Despite the extensive research on the determinants of audit pricing in both public and private settings, there is a lack of research about the differences in audit fees between voluntary audits and mandatory audits. This study addresses this gap.

Design/methodology/approach: Firstly, a theoretical framework is developed to justify differences in audit pricing between voluntary and mandatory audits. Next, using a sample of Spanish private SMEs running from 2009 to 2014, we empirically test whether the fees charged for voluntary audits differ from those charged for mandatory ones. We also examine whether the premium observed among large auditors is persistent in the SME setting, and whether this premium differs depending on whether the audits are voluntary or mandatory.

Findings: Although a preliminary analysis does not report significant differences in pricing between voluntary and mandatory audits, additional analyses using samples restricted by company size show that voluntary audits are charged with a premium. We observe a premium related to large auditors, and find no significant differences in the audit pricing of Big 4 auditors depending on the mandatory/voluntary nature of the audit, but the premium associated with Middle-Tier auditors disappears in the voluntary setting.

Originality/value: This paper contributes to the previous literature by introducing the examination of differences in audit pricing between voluntary and mandatory audits. As far as we know, this is the first study to examine the differences in audit pricing between voluntary and mandatory audits. It also elaborates on studies on audit pricing in SMEs.

Keywords: Voluntary Audit, Audit Fees, Big 4 Premium, Middle-Tier Auditors, SMEs

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Gandía, Juan L. and Huguet, David, Differences in Audit Pricing between Voluntary and Mandatory Audits (April 5, 2017). Academia-Revista Latinoamericana de Administración, 31 (2), 336-359., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3048251
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Auditoras, garantes de la veracidad y calidad de la información financiera de las empresas
ABC Posted: 2013-04-18
Kristian D. Allee , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Demand for Financial Statements in an Unregulated Environment: an Examination of the Production and Use of Financial Statements By Privately-Held Small Businesses
Pages: 49 Posted: 2 Feb 2005 Last revised: 14 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B Badertscher , B Jorgensen , S Katz , W Kinney
Public equity and audit pricing in the United States
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 303 - 339 Posted: 2014
Crossref
V Beattie , A Goodacre , K Pratt , J Stevenson
The determinants of audit fees -evidence from the voluntary sector
Accounting and Business Research , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 243 - 274 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,463
RANK
560,264
2 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies