Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Internal Corporate Governance on Firm Performance: Empirical Evidence from Bangladesh, Malaysia & Singapore

Independent Business Review, Vol. 9 (1 & 2), July-December 2016

15 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2017

Syed A. Mamun, PhD, FCMA

Universiti Utara Malaysia - School of Accountancy; Credit Rating Information and Services Limited

Mohammad Fahad Noor

Independent University, Bangladesh (IUB)

S. Musa

IIB Asia

Date Written: July 31, 2016

Abstract

Internal Corporate governance refers to the controlling mechanism of various internal actors of a firm. The aim of the study is to explore the impact of internal corporate governance (CG) mechanism on firm performance in three Asian countries namely Bangladesh, Malaysia, and Singapore. Results show that Board Size, Board Independence and CEO Duality have impact on firm performance. Though the impact of CG on firm performance is significant in Singapore, the impact is not significant in Bangladesh and Malaysia. These findings of the study have significant implications to public policy makers and corporate managers to understand the evolution and effectiveness of internal CG practices in different Asian countries.

Keywords: Internal Corporate Governance, Firm Performance, Board of Directors

Suggested Citation:

Mamun, PhD, FCMA, Syed Abdulla Al and Mamun, PhD, FCMA, Syed Abdulla Al and Noor, Mohammad Fahad and Musa, S., The Impact of Internal Corporate Governance on Firm Performance: Empirical Evidence from Bangladesh, Malaysia & Singapore (July 31, 2016). Independent Business Review, Vol. 9 (1 & 2), July-December 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3049580
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,296
RANK
541,838
25 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies