Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings-Reducing Activities Before Management Buyouts

42 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2017

Xi Li

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Finance

Jun "QJ" Qian

Fudan University - International School of Finance (FISF); National University of Singapore (NUS) - Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER)

Julie Zhu

Fanhai International School of Finance(FISF), Fudan University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 19, 2013

Abstract

During the year prior to management buyout (MBOs) announcements, target firms exhibit abnormally high discretionary expenses in selling, general and administration, abnormally low discretionary accruals, and realize losses from asset sales. Higher discretionary expenses and losses from asset sales are associated with lower pre-MBO abnormal stock returns, especially for firms with higher insider ownership, less board and institutional monitoring, and higher information asymmetry. They are also associated with better post-MBO operating performance. None of these activities affects the likelihood of MBO deal completion, announcement period abnormal returns, or offer premium. These target firms do not show such abnormal activities in other years before the MBOs or after the MBOs. Our results suggest that outside investors and the market do not fully understand the earnings-reducing activities before MBOs.

Keywords: Management buyout, discretionary expenses, asset sales, accruals, stock return

JEL Classification: G34, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xi and Qian, Jun and Zhu, Julie, Earnings-Reducing Activities Before Management Buyouts (August 19, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3049244 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3049244
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
J Lerner , M Sorensen , P Stromberg
Private Equity and Long-run Investment: The Case of Innovation
Journal of Finance , volume 66 , p. 445 - 477 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Xi Li
Real Earnings Management and Subsequent Stock Returns
Pages: 57 Posted: 21 Sep 2010 Last revised: 18 Jun 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
H Louis
Earnings management and the market performance of acquiring firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 74 , p. 121 - 148 Posted: 2004
Crossref
H Louis , D Robinson
Do managers credibly use accruals to signal private information? Evidence from the pricing of discretionary accruals around stock splits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , p. 361 - 380 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,561
RANK
42,772
1 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies