Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Task-Specific Knowledge Improve Audit Quality: Evidence from Audits of Income Tax Accounts

Accounting, Organizations & Society, Forthcoming

65 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2017 Last revised: 15 Nov 2021

Nathan C. Goldman

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

M. Harris

Washington State University - Department of Accounting

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 13, 2021

Abstract

Two forms of expertise can influence audit quality: industry and task-specific expertise. If tax knowledge is task-specific rather than industry-specific, audit offices with increased exposure to complex tax issues will develop this task-specific expertise. Using outcomes related to income tax account audits, we examine whether tax task-specific knowledge (TSK) accumulates at the audit office level and affects the income tax accounts’ audit quality. We find that tax TSK increases the income tax accounts' audit quality, suggesting individual tax TSK accumulates at the office level. Additionally, semi-structured interviews of partners/senior managers at a Big 4 audit firms validate group processing theory as an explanation for TSK developing at the office level. We contribute to and extend the literature examining audit office expertise by providing evidence that exposure to complex tax issues develop TSK. That TSK accumulates at the office level and enhances audit quality. These findings provide archival and qualitative evidence of how TSK develops at the office level.

Keywords: Income Tax Audit Quality, Tax Restatements, Task Expertise, Income Tax Complexity, Task-specific Expertise

Suggested Citation:

Goldman, Nathan C. and Harris, M. and Omer, Thomas C., Does Task-Specific Knowledge Improve Audit Quality: Evidence from Audits of Income Tax Accounts (January 13, 2021). Accounting, Organizations & Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3049095 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3049095
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
D Anantharaman , N Wans
Audit office expertise with SOX 404(b) Filers and SOX 404 Audit Quality
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia
Do Practitioner Assessments Agree with Academic Proxies for Audit Quality? Evidence from PCAOB and Internal Inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
M Abdolmohammadi , A Wright
An examination of the effects of experience and task complexity on audit judgments
The Accounting Review , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 1987
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditor-client relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
510
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,923
RANK
126,559
3 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies