Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Corporate Social Responsibility Related to Corporate Tax Avoidance? Evidence from a Natural Experiment

Journal of the American Taxation Association

55 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2017 Last revised: 26 Aug 2020

Michael Mayberry

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Luke Watson

Villanova University

Date Written: August 25, 2020

Abstract

We employ states’ enactment of constituency statutes as plausibly exogenous shocks to the marginal cost of corporate social responsibility (CSR) and examine the relation between CSR and corporate tax avoidance. We find almost no evidence of an association between the enactment of constituency statutes and tax avoidance. We use confidence intervals and other analysis to rule out low power as an explanation. Using an instrumental variables design, we find evidence that third-party CSR scores increase following constituency statutes, yet without a detectable impact on tax avoidance. The lack of results across multiple proxies and specifications suggests firms decouple CSR from tax policy. Our study introduces a strong identification strategy common in management research to the accounting literature, producing a novel no-result finding on a popular research question.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Sustainability, Tax Avoidance

JEL Classification: M410

Suggested Citation:

Mayberry, Michael and Watson, Luke, Is Corporate Social Responsibility Related to Corporate Tax Avoidance? Evidence from a Natural Experiment (August 25, 2020). Journal of the American Taxation Association, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3049925 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3049925
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
A Abadie
Semiparametric difference-in-differences estimators
Review of Economic Studies , volume 72 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Akerman , I Gaarder , M Mogstad
The skill complementarity of broadband internet
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 130 , issue 4 , p. 1781 - 1824 Posted: 2015
Crossref
J Alexander , M Spivey , M Marr
Nonshareholder constituency statutes and shareholder wealth: a note
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 21 , p. 417 - 432 Posted: 1997
Crossref
S Al-Tuwajiri , T Christensen , K Hughes
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: A simultaneous equations approach. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 29 , issue 5-6 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
507
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,367
RANK
127,805
16 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies