Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Analysis Company Size, Corporate Governance and Audit Quality to Earning Management in Indonesia

Russian Journal of Agricultural and Socio-Economic Sciences, September 2017

14 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2017

Rizal Mawardi

Airlangga University, Students

Date Written: 30 9, 2017

Abstract

In the preparation of accrual basis accounting financial statements are selected because it can reflect the company's financial condition directly. Policymakers provide flexibility for management to be able to choose the accounting standards applied to the company. Management takes advantage of the freedom of selection of certain accounting policies in order to provide good earnings reporting in the financial statements. This study aims to analyze the effect of firm size and good corporate governance (GCG) to earnings management with moderation variables that is audit quality. This research is a quantitative research using secondary data. The sample selection was done by purposive sampling method and the data processing method using hypothesis analysis and multigroup analysis. The data used is obtained from Indonesia Stock Exchange and processed by using Smart PLS. The results showed that firm size variables did not significantly influence positively to earnings management but the variable of Good Corporate Governance (GCG) had a significant positive effect on earnings management. Audit quality can not moderate the effect of firm size on earnings management. The researchers hope that the results of this study will provide new insights for academics and practitioners regarding the relationship between Corporate Size, Good Corporate Governance (GCG) and Audit Quality to Profit Management.

Keywords: Company, Size, Corporate Governance, Profit, Management

Suggested Citation:

Mawardi, Rizal, Empirical Analysis Company Size, Corporate Governance and Audit Quality to Earning Management in Indonesia (30 9, 2017). Russian Journal of Agricultural and Socio-Economic Sciences, September 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3050076
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Abdillah Willy , Jogiyanto
Posted: 2015
Crossref
Agustia Dian
Pengaruh Leverage terhadap Manajemen , issue 1 Posted: 2013
Asyraf Afthanorhan, Nazim, Least Square Structural International of Economics
Crossref
M At , E Puspitosarie
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
460
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,911
RANK
143,403
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies