Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Internal Audit on the Performance of Decentralized Entities in Rwanda

22 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2017

Dr. Jean Paul Mpakaniye

INES-RUHENGERI

Date Written: October 11, 2017

Abstract

This research entitled “the effect of internal audit on the performance of decentralized entities in Rwanda, case study of NYABIHU District, Period of 2014-2016”. The specific objectives were to identify the determinants of internal audit of Nyabihu District, to assess the performance indicators of Nyabihu District and to establish the relationship between internal audit and performance of Nyabihu District. The researcher tested the following hypotheses: Control, risk management, determining level of compliance, assurance services, detecting errors and frauds are determinant of internal auditors in Nyabihu District, Effective and efficient operations, financial efficiency and accountability are performance indicators of Nyabihu District and there is a close relationship between internal audit and performance of Nyabihu District.

During the whole research process, both primary and secondary data have been used. Primary data were directly obtained from responses provided by the 20 employees of Nyabihu District selected from 60 populations. To attain the purpose of the study through the questionnaires and interview. Secondary data were obtained through literature in the existing books related to this study, academic papers, reports and internet. From the findings, it was revealed that that 100% of the respondents are on positive side agreed that the determinant of internal audit are risk management, control system and determining level of compliance while 20% of respondents not agreed with detecting errors and frauds. The results showed that the indicators of performance in NYABIHU District are financial efficiency as evidenced with 80% efficient operations with 75%, accountability with70 % and goals attained with 60% of respondents. Findings showed that there is indeed a strong positive relationship between internal audit and performance at a Pearson correlation coefficient of r = 0. 732 and p = 0.01. Since r > 0.1, this implies that internal audit affects performance by 75.2% and 26.8% by other factors. From the discussion of findings, we can conclude that the quality of audit work has a significant positive effect on performance of decentralized entities. The recommendations were provided stating that the recruitment systems should be streamlined so that recruitment is done of employees who are qualified in their respective areas regardless of their political affiliation and the government of Rwanda should creates the chartered institute of auditing for growing up the professional auditor with for better function of audit.

Keywords: Internal audit, Decentralized entities and Performance

Suggested Citation:

Mpakaniye, Dr. Jean Paul, The Effect of Internal Audit on the Performance of Decentralized Entities in Rwanda (October 11, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3051075 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3051075
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
D Abbass , M Aleqab
Internal Auditors' Characteristics and Audit Fees: Evidence from Egyptian Firms
International Business Research , volume 6 , p. 67 - 80 Posted: 2013
Crossref
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal Audit Quality and Financial Reporting Quality: The Joint Importance of Independence and Competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
Crossref
A Alzeban
Influence of audit committees on internal audit conformance with internal audit standards
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 307 , issue 6 , p. 539 - 559 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Alzeban , D Gwilliam
Factors affecting the internal audit effectiveness: A survey of the Saudi public sector
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 74 - 86 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
721
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,451
RANK
81,447
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies