Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incentives for Dishonesty: An Experimental Study with Internal Auditors

39 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2017

Loukas Balafoutas

University of Innsbruck

Simon Czermak

Management Center Innsbruck (MCI)

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Helena Fornwagner

University of Exeter Business School - Department of Economics

Date Written: October 12, 2017

Abstract

We conduct an experiment with professional internal auditors and evaluate their performance and objectivity, measured as the extent to which they truthfully report the performance of other participants in a real-effort task. It has been suggested in the literature that incentive-based compensation for auditors has the potential to lead to dishonest behavior, for instance when their payoff depends on the performance of the unit they are auditing. In line with our hypotheses, we find that incentive-based compensation increases dishonest behavior among internal auditors: competitive incentives lead to under-reporting of other participants’ performance, while collective incentives lead to over-reporting of performance. In addition, we find that moving from an environment with objective performance evaluation towards a peer evaluation scheme reduces performance.

Keywords: dishonesty, incentives, sabotage, internal audit, experiment

JEL Classification: C93; M40; M49

Suggested Citation:

Balafoutas, Loukas and Czermak, Simon and Eulerich, Marc and Fornwagner, Helena, Incentives for Dishonesty: An Experimental Study with Internal Auditors (October 12, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3051887 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3051887
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,745
RANK
390,788
1 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies