Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder-Initiated Lawsuits and Cross-Listed Firms: The Penalties of Securities Class Action Lawsuits

International Research Journal of Applied Finance, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2017

Kathryn M. Schumann

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Date Written: August 14, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines the market penalties extracted by shareholders against firms that are alleged to have violated securities laws within the US. Using a sample of private securities class action cases brought against foreign firms that cross-list on the major US exchanges, this paper examines market penalties at violation disclosure, case filing, and settlement dates and finds that each event corresponds to an economically and statistically significant loss of value for the accused firm. On average I find that the violation results in a loss of more than 18% of market value, corresponding to an average of $575 million in dollars lost upon disclosure of the violation. When the disclosure, case filing, and settlement losses are combined, the losses average more than $740 million. More importantly, when compared to those of domestic firms, I find almost no significant differences in the market penalties of foreign and domestic firms at key dates around the violation of securities law. Further, an examination of the determinants of the reputational penalties assessed during the disclosure of a securities law violation indicates that reputational penalties are greater in cases where investors perceive the minority shareholder protection in the home country to be better.

Keywords: ADR, Cross-Listing, Securities Class Actions, Reputational Penalties

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Schumann, Kathryn M., Shareholder-Initiated Lawsuits and Cross-Listed Firms: The Penalties of Securities Class Action Lawsuits (August 14, 2017). International Research Journal of Applied Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3053854
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,777
RANK
759,678
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies