Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hospital Services Centralization: A Case Study on Performance Effects in Denmark

24 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2017

Rainer Lueg

Leuphana University of Lueneburg - Department of Accounting, Business & Management; University of Southern Denmark - Department of Accounting, Business & Management

Søren Halkjær

Aarhus University

Date Written: Januar 1, 2017

Abstract

This paper analyzes how hospital service centralization affects performance, assessed by length of stay and readmission rate. The centralization was demanded by a public policy change in Danish healthcare in 2011. We adopt the view of institutional theory and employ a mixed-methods approach in a natural experiment, in which some hospital services are centralized. Our data include 24,694 observations of patient treatments from 2010-2012, public documentation on the public policy change, information from the data management system of the hospital, as well as interviews with key informants. Our econometric difference-in-difference analysis finds that the length of stay increases by 0.38 days and the readmission rate decreases by approximately 4 percentage points after a service centralization. The qualitative analyses of interviews and internal accounting data illustrate how the hospital struggles for legitimacy after the policy change, and how cost savings obstruct the centralized department in achieving its goals.

Keywords: Hospital, Centralization, Natural Experiment, Performance, Length of Stay, Readmission Rate

JEL Classification: I18, M10

Suggested Citation:

Lueg, Rainer and Halkjær, Søren, Hospital Services Centralization: A Case Study on Performance Effects in Denmark (Januar 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3055625 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3055625
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
M A Abernethy , W F Chua , J Grafton , H Mahama
Accounting and control in health care: Behavioural, organisation, sociological and critical perspectives
Handbook of Management Accounting Research Posted: 2007
Crossref
J Ashby , S Guterman , T Greene
An analysis of hospital productivity and product change , volume 19 , p. 197 - 205 Posted: 2000
Crossref
C M Ashton , D J Del Junco , J Souchek , N P Wray , C L Mansyur
The association between the quality of inpatient care and early readmission: a meta-analysis of the evidence
Medical Care , volume 35 , issue 10 , p. 1044 - 1059 Posted: 1997
Crossref
C M Ashton , D H Kuykendall , M L Johnson , N P Wray , L Wu
The association between the quality of inpatient care and early readmission
Annals of Internal Medicine , volume 122 , issue 6 , p. 415 - 421 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
265
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,689
RANK
263,404
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies