Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Corporate Governance and Capital Structure on Firms’ Performance: Investigation on Petroleum Sector in Pakistan

Journal of Independent Studies and Research, Vol. 1, No. 15, 2017

18 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2017

Kamran Nawaz

Institute of Business Management (IoBM), Students

Nawaz Ahmad

RTS (Research, Trainings, and Solutions); Mehran University of Engineering & Technology

Date Written: June 30, 2017

Abstract

The attempt of the research is to realize the key factors and examine the effect of corporate governance and capital structure on firms’ financial performance belonging to petroleum sector which are registered on Pakistan Stock Exchange (PSX). The study focuses on data gathered from five companies of petroleum sector keeping in view the present situation of Pakistan and current economic, political and legislative environment to evaluate and judge the challenges and risks affecting the firms’ performance. Only a single source of data is used which is secondary. The sample employed in the current research is comprised of five firms listed in the PSX index under the petroleum sector. The sample size selected for the purpose of this research is consisting of nine years annual data of the variables starting from year 2007 to year 2015 used. Multiple Regression model is used as the statistical technique and SPSS statistics has been used for examination of hypotheses. The empirical results investigated that Short term debt ratio and Long term debt ratio has significantly negative correlation with ROA. The firms with lesser STD & LTD ratio lead to higher financial performance. Consequently, board size and no. of shareholders has insignificant relationship with ROA. Furthermore, the study investigated that ROE has insignificant either negative or positive relationship with all the independent variables namely Board size, No. of shareholders, Short-term debt ratio and Long-term debt ratio.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Capital Structure, ROA, ROE, Short Term Debt Ratio and Long Term Debt Ratio

JEL Classification: C12, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Nawaz, Kamran and Ahmad, Nawaz, The Effect of Corporate Governance and Capital Structure on Firms’ Performance: Investigation on Petroleum Sector in Pakistan (June 30, 2017). Journal of Independent Studies and Research, Vol. 1, No. 15, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3055916
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
J Abor
The effect of capital structure on profitability: an empirical analysis of listed firms in Ghana. The journal of risk finance , volume 6 , p. 438 - 445 Posted: 2005
Crossref
E S Akpan , H B Riman
Does corporate governance affect bank profitability? Evidence from Nigeria
American International Journal of Contemporary Research , volume 2 , issue 7 , p. 135 - 145 Posted: 2012
S A Ali , S A Zia , A Razi
Impact of Capital Structure on the Profitibality of Petroleum Sector in Pakistan
Global Journal of Management And Business Research , issue 22 Posted: 2012
B Becker , H Cronqvist , R Fahlenbrach
Estimating the effects of large shareholders using a geographic instrument
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 46 , issue 4 , p. 907 - 942 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
477
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,392
RANK
137,237
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies