Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Capital and Trade Credit

International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming

Posted: 19 Oct 2017 Last revised: 10 Oct 2018

Mostafa Monzur Hasan

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance; Macquarie University

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Date Written: October 18, 2017

Abstract

We investigate the relation between social capital and firms’ use of trade credit in the USA. We also estimate the extent to which social capital is both directly and indirectly related to firms’ use of trade credit. Using a large sample of US data, we find robust evidence that firms headquartered in high social capital counties use less trade credit: a finding that is both statistically and economically significant. Our analysis also reveals that social capital, both directly and indirectly (through the financial constraints channel), influences firms’ use of trade credit. An additional analysis reveals that the county-level social norms provide the mechanism through which social capital influences firm-level trade credit. Our results are robust to alternative measures of social capital and trade credit, and are not driven by omitted variable bias or endogeneity issues. Overall, our results show that county-level social capital influences organizational outcomes.

Keywords: Social Capital, Trade Credit

Suggested Citation:

Hasan, Mostafa Monzur and Habib, Ahsan, Social Capital and Trade Credit (October 18, 2017). International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3055327
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,347
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies