Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economics of Managerial Taxes and Corporate Risk-Taking

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series Vol. 6, No. 3 Paper No 2018-87

68 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2017 Last revised: 12 Jan 2019

Chris Armstrong

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Stephen Glaeser

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill

Sterling Huang

New York University (NYU) - New York University (NYU), Shanghai

Daniel J. Taylor

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania

Date Written: July 10, 2017

Abstract

We examine the relation between managers’ personal income tax rates and their corporate investment decisions. Using plausibly exogenous variation in federal and state tax rates, we find a positive relation between managers’ personal tax rates and their corporate risk-taking. Moreover — and consistent with our theoretical predictions — we find that this relation is stronger among firms with investment opportunities that have a relatively high rate of return per unit of risk, and stronger among CEOs who have a relatively low marginal disutility of risk. Importantly, our results are unique to senior managers’ tax rates — we do not find similar relations for middle-income tax rates. We also find that the tax-induced risk-taking relates to idiosyncratic rather than systematic risk, suggesting that it will not be priced by well-diversified shareholders. Collectively, our findings provide evidence that managers’ personal income taxes influence their corporate risk-taking.

Keywords: Corporate risk-taking; risky investment; risk-taking incentives; personal income taxes; federal income taxes; state income taxes; agency conflict

JEL Classification: G32, H24, J33, M52

Suggested Citation:

Armstrong, Chris S. and Glaeser, Stephen and Huang, Sterling and Taylor, Daniel, The Economics of Managerial Taxes and Corporate Risk-Taking (July 10, 2017). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series Vol. 6, No. 3 Paper No 2018-87, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3057464 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3057464
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
C Armstrong , D Larcker , G Ormazabal , D Taylor
The relation between equity incentives and misreporting: The role of risk-taking incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 327 - 350 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C Armstrong , R Vashishtha
Executive stock options, differential risk-taking incentives, and firm value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 104 , p. 70 - 88 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Auerbach
The dynamic effects of tax law asymmetries
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 53 , p. 205 - 225 Posted: 1986
Crossref
S Bhagat , I Welch
Corporate research and development investments: International comparisons
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 19 , p. 443 - 470 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
997
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,759
RANK
52,639
12 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies