Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cash Flow Problems Can Kill Profitable Companies

International Journal of Business Administration (2017) 8 (6): 46-54

23 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2017 Last revised: 26 May 2021

Derrald Stice

The University of Hong Kong - School of Business; HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Earl Stice

Brigham Young University; Nazarbayev University

James Stice

Brigham Young University

Date Written: September 1, 2017

Abstract

Although the cash flow statement has been required in public financial reports since 1988 in the United States (and since 1994 according to International Financial Reporting Standards), these important cash flow data are still often overlooked in standard financial analyses. Accounting net income measures economic performance which does not necessarily match up with the timing of cash flow. Many profitable businesses have been killed by cash flow problems, often in the start-up phase. A business has three types of cash flows: operating, investing, and financing. A key measure of cash flow health is free cash flow, the amount of operating cash flow generated in excess of the cash needed for important spending such as for capital expenditures. Managers must pay particular attention to the difference in timing between when cash is collected from customers from the sale of inventory and when cash must be paid to suppliers for the purchase of that inventory. A significant discrepancy between those numbers indicates a potential cash flow problem. Managers and owners of a business that is burning through cash spend much of their time worrying about cash flow survival and are therefore distracted from making the tactical and strategic decisions important to the long-run success of their business.

Keywords: Operating Cash Flow, Start-up Companies, Free Cash Flow, Accrual Accounting

Suggested Citation:

Stice, Derrald and Stice, Earl and Stice, James, Cash Flow Problems Can Kill Profitable Companies (September 1, 2017). International Journal of Business Administration (2017) 8 (6): 46-54, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3057698 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3057698
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
The cash flow statement used in the United Kingdom includes additional categories beyond these three. According to U.K. Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 1, separate cash flow categories exist for both cash flows related to taxation and cash flows related to the payment and receipt of interest
These calculations reflect the operating practices of the 6,444 company-operated stores which represent 18% of the total number of 36,525 McDonalds restaurants, both companyoperated and franchised
General Motors financial statement data are found in the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) EDGAR database under the name "Motors Liquidation Company Posted: 2009
Apple Inc
Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) October 28 Posted: 2014-09-26
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,636
RANK
15,551
4 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies