Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Neglecting the Proactive Aspect of Human Rights Due Diligence? A Critical Appraisal of the EU's Non-Financial Reporting Directive as a Pillar One Avenue for Promoting Pillar Two Action

Business and Human Rights Journal, Vol 3, Issue 1

University of Oslo Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2017-34

23 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2017 Last revised: 17 Nov 2017

Karin Buhmann

Copenhagen Business School (CBS) - CBS Centre for CSR; Dpt of Management, Society and Communication; Centre for Law, Sustainability & Justice

Date Written: October 25, 2017

Abstract

Firms’ Human Rights Due Diligence (HRDD) and communication on their human rights impacts are elements in the Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights (Pillar Two), and should be promoted by States as part of their State Duty to Protect (Pillar One) through regulatory strategies aimed at shaping business conduct. Analyzing the EU’s 2014 Non-Financial Reporting Directive as an example of governmental regulation for promoting responsible business conduct, the article discusses conditions for HRDD and reporting as a communication process to stimulate organizational change in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles to avoid harm, including through affected-stakeholder engagement. Applying socio-legal regulatory theory along with organizational and accounting literature, the article finds that the Directive’s predominant focus on ex-post measures appears to be a neglected opportunity to induce ex-ante organizational learning and changed business conduct to prevent adverse human rights impacts. It offers recommendations for regulators and stakeholders for stronger regulation.

Suggested Citation:

Buhmann, Karin, Neglecting the Proactive Aspect of Human Rights Due Diligence? A Critical Appraisal of the EU's Non-Financial Reporting Directive as a Pillar One Avenue for Promoting Pillar Two Action (October 25, 2017). Business and Human Rights Journal, Vol 3, Issue 1, University of Oslo Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2017-34, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3058603
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Buhmann Posted: 2013
Crossref
Buhmann Sinding
Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Peter , Clarkson
Revisiting the relation between environmental performance and environmental disclosure: An empirical analysis
Accounting , volume 33 Posted: 2008
W Eric , Orts
Northwestern University Law Review , volume 89 , issue 4 Posted: 1227
Load more
5 Citations
Nicolas Bueno
Multinational Enterprises and Labour Rights: Concepts and Implementation
Research Handbook on Labour, Business and Human Rights Law, edited by Bellace / ter Haar (Edward Elgar 2019) 421-438 · 23 Pages · Posted: 3 Dec 2018 · Last revised: 21 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 221
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Vera Rusinova , Sergey Korotkov
Mandatory Corporate Human Rights Due Diligence Models: Shooting Blanks?
Higher School of Economics Research Paper No. WP BRP 99/LAW/2021 · 25 Pages · Posted: 25 May 2021 · Downloads: 276
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ari Van Assche , Kristin Brandl
Harnessing Power Within Global Value Chains for Sustainable Development
Transnational Corporations Journal, Vol. 28, No. 3, 2021 · 12 Pages · Posted: 4 Jan 2022 · Downloads: 324
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Debadatta Bose
Theoretical Aspects of Human Rights Due Diligence: The Interpersonal Justice Process
Göran Sluiter and Nicky Touw (eds.), Moving corporate social responsibility towards human rights due diligence legislation (Springer/TMC Asser Press 2024), · 26 Pages · Posted: 25 Oct 2022 · Last revised: 27 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 180
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,060
RANK
298,527
5 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Oslo Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies