Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Integration and the Market for Corporate Control: Evidence from Cross-State Acquisitions

Management Science Forthcoming

33 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2017 Last revised: 18 Jul 2019

Kose John

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Qianru Qi

Telfer School of Management

Jing Wang

University of Missouri at Columbia

Date Written: February 21, 2019

Abstract

How does bank integration affect the market for corporate control for nonfinancial firms? We provide causal evidence that interstate bank deregulation affects acquisitions mainly through reducing the information asymmetry between acquirers and targets, instead of increased credit supply. After deregulation, the likelihood of cross-state acquisitions significantly increases, and more so if the target borrows from an out-of-state bank, the target’s bank is acquired by an out-of-state bank, the target’s state has reciprocal interstate bank deregulation with the acquirer’s state, or the target is opaque. The reduced information asymmetry increases announcement returns for acquirers of out-of-state (particularly private) targets after deregulation.

Keywords: Bank Integration, Market for Corporate Control, Cross-State Acquisitions, Asymmetric Information

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G21

Suggested Citation:

John, Kose and Qi, Qianru and Wang, Jing, Bank Integration and the Market for Corporate Control: Evidence from Cross-State Acquisitions (February 21, 2019). Management Science Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3058165 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3058165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
A Agrawal , T Cooper , Q Lian , Q Wang
Common advisers in mergers and acquisitions: Determinants and consequences
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 56 , issue 3 , p. 691 - 740 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S Agarwal , R Hauswald
Distance and private information in lending
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 7 , p. 2757 - 2788 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Almazan , A De Motta , S Titman , V Uysal
Financial structure, acquisition opportunities, and firm locations
The Journal of Finance , volume 65 , issue 2 , p. 529 - 563 Posted: 2010
Crossref
D F Amel
State laws affecting the geographic expansion of commercial banks Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,368
RANK
334,632
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies