Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Turkeys Don't Vote for Thanksgiving!' Metaphors Used by Australian Company Directors to Describe Contradictions and Constraints on Optimal Board Performance

12 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2017

Charles Areni

University of Wollongong

Date Written: January 09, 2017

Abstract

This report examines how Australian company directors make sense of what they perceive as conflicting responsibilities and objectives, and to identify what they see as the main constraints on optimal board functioning. Sixty directors, either managing directors (n = 14), board chairs (n = 24) or other non-executive directors (n = 22), from the Top 200 companies listed on the Australian Stock Exchange completed two-hour, in-depth, semi-structured interviews regarding the internal and external influences on board processes and decision-making. Company directors felt constrained by four dominant mindsets – risk aversion, short-termism, over-scrutiny, and anti-business cultural values, imposed on them by four constituencies – ‘professional’ directors, irrational investors, overzealous media, and overbearing regulators. In order to make sense of and cope with the conflicting demands of these mindsets, these directors used multiple metaphors falling into the general categories of alternative professions, plants and animals, and travel and geography. Together these mindsets and metaphors conveyed the action sequences of celebrities evading unwanted attention, authority figures punishing naughty children, and explorers turning back or needing quick fixes due to unforeseen obstacles. These Australian company directors conveyed a fundamental disconnect between what they feel they are supposed to do – building the long-term wealth of shareholders – and what they are allowed to do given scrutiny by internal (‘professional’ directors and irrational investors) and external (overzealous media, and overbearing regulators) constituencies. This perceived over-scrutiny may lead Australian directors to adopt a short-term, risk-averse perspective leading to sub-optimal financial performance over time.

Keywords: corporate boards, company directors, business metaphors, corporate governance, gender balance, business growth strategies, business risk and return

JEL Classification: L21, L25, L50, M12, M16, M48

Suggested Citation:

Areni, Charles, 'Turkeys Don't Vote for Thanksgiving!' Metaphors Used by Australian Company Directors to Describe Contradictions and Constraints on Optimal Board Performance (January 09, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3060243 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3060243
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
H Van Ees , J Gabrielsson , M Huse
Toward a behavioral theory of boards and corporate governance
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 17 , p. 307 - 319 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Huse
Accountability and creating accountability: a framework for exploring behavioural perspectives of corporate governance
British Journal of Management , volume 16 , p. 65 - 79 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Pye
The changing power of 'explanations': directors, academics and their sensemaking from 1989 to 2000
Journal of Management Studies , volume 39 , p. 907 - 925 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Pugliese , P-J Bezemer , A Zattoni , M Huse , Van Den , F A J Bosch , H W Volberda
Boards of directors' contribution to strategy: a literature review and research agenda
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 17 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,282
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies