Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study on the Disclosure Practices of Banks in India with Reference to Indian Accounting Standards

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XV, No. 4, October 2016, pp. 7-28

Posted: 30 Oct 2017

Y. V. Reddy

Goa Business School, Goa University

B.G. Poornima

Goa University

Swizel Alphonso

Independent

Date Written: October 28, 2017

Abstract

Disclosure may be defined as a practice of releasing important information about various activities and affairs of the business through annual reports, press releases, interim reports, quarterly results and various other published results. The present study mainly aims at examining the disclosure practices followed by the public and private sector banks in India and the factors affecting the disclosure practices of banks in India. Banks forming a part of Nifty Bank Index have been considered as the sample for the study for the period 2014-15. There are 12 banks included in this index comprising 7 private sector banks and 5 public sector banks. It is concluded that since all the banks considered in the study are listed banks, disclosure scores among public and private sector banks do not vary to a great extent. Accounting for Fixed Assets and Revenue Recognition are the highly disclosed accounting standards, while Accounting for Amalgamation is the least disclosed accounting standard. Size of the bank, profitability and age are the significant factors affecting the disclosure practices of banks in India. The results also show that disclosure practices vary among banks as well as across the years.

Suggested Citation:

Reddy, Y.V. and Poornima, B.G. and Alphonso, Swizel, A Study on the Disclosure Practices of Banks in India with Reference to Indian Accounting Standards (October 28, 2017). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XV, No. 4, October 2016, pp. 7-28, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3060933
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,210
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies