Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Concentration, Corporate Governance and Disclosure Practices: A Study of Firms Listed in Bombay Stock Exchange

The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XV, No. 4, October 2016, pp. 7-36

Posted: 30 Oct 2017

Pankaj Madhani

The Icfai Business School (IBS), Ahmedabad

Date Written: October 28, 2017

Abstract

Ownership concentration is a significant internal governance mechanism in which owners can control and influence the management of the firm to protect their interests. This research focuses on the relationship between ownership concentration and corporate governance and disclosure practices of firms. Accordingly, this study identifies and tests the empirical evidence for such relationship for sample firms listed in Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and selected from nine different sectors of the S&P BSE sectoral indices. Indian firms are predominantly of family origin and promoter controlled. This ownership effect provides promoters enough control over the management of the firm. The ownership concentration provides two offsetting effects: substitution effect and expropriation effect. From this perspective, the research explains the principal-agent agency theory as well as principal-principal theory. This research studies ownership concentration in terms of promoters’ holding and finds that promoters’ holding have a negative but insignificant correlation with corporate governance and disclosure practices of firms. As shareholding patterns in India show a high level of promoters’ concentration, it is interesting to see whether external efforts at improving corporate governance would succeed as it happened in economies of dispersed ownership.

Suggested Citation:

Madhani, Pankaj, Ownership Concentration, Corporate Governance and Disclosure Practices: A Study of Firms Listed in Bombay Stock Exchange (October 28, 2017). The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XV, No. 4, October 2016, pp. 7-36, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3060981
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
796
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies