Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Engagement Auditor Industry Specialization and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from China

55 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2017

Hua Feng

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Hedy Jiaying Huang

School of Accountancy, Albany Campus

Baolei Qi

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Date Written: October 29, 2017

Abstract

We investigate the effects of engagement auditor industry specialization on stock price crash risk. Although research on audit partners has been growing, we are not aware of any prior studies that investigate partner-level specialization and crash risk. Using a large sample of Chinese stocks spanning the period 2003-2015, we find a statistically significant and negative association between auditor industry specialization and stock price crash risk. Our mediation tests suggest that audit partner industry specialization decreases the risk of price crash by mitigating earnings manipulation. We further document that the negative association is more pronounced for firms that switch from non-specialist audit partners to specialist audit partners. We also find some evidence that audit partners’ personal characteristics moderate the association between partner specialization and crash risk. Our results remain robust to alternative measures of partner specialization.

Keywords: Engagement auditor, industry specialization, stock price crash risk, China

JEL Classification: G12, G30, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Hua and Habib, Ahsan and Huang, Hedy Jiaying and Qi, Baolei, Engagement Auditor Industry Specialization and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from China (October 29, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3061269 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3061269
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,973
RANK
280,604
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies