Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impaired Asset Management and the Optimal Timing of Write-Down Decisions

17 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2017

Avi Messica

The College of Management

Gali Ingber-Krauthgamer

The Graduate School of Business and Administration - The College of Management

Date Written: October 29, 2017

Abstract

Asset write-down refers to a reduction of an impaired asset’s value on a firm’s balance sheet. Impaired asset management has attracted much attention since the 2008 credit crunch crisis with respect to regulation, corporate and managerial ethics, capital market response and more. The common approach in past studies of write-downs based the decision-making process on agency-related reasoning. This paper presents a quantitative financial analysis of the optimal write-down timing of an impaired asset under different settings as well different managerial attitudes. We applied a conditional time-averaged value of a firm's stock price to model the manager’s decision-making process and analyzed the optimal timing of write-down with respect to the capital market as well as management’s expectations. Different exogenous settings of the optimal write-down timing such as impairment recovery rate and stock price return were analyzed. Moreover, a rational-type and a behavioral-type models of managers were also studied. Under most settings, our findings indicate that the common practice among managers, of write-down aversion, is optimal. However, counter-intuitively, we found that under specific setting the optimal action is, on the contrary, to write down. Moreover, write-down decision is also dependent on the firm’s stock price daily volatility. Managers of firms having stocks of high price volatility are in a favored position, decision-making wise, in comparison against manager of low volatility stocks.

Keywords: financial management, decision making, optimal timing, write-down

JEL Classification: C20, C41, M10, M41

Suggested Citation:

Messica, Avi and Ingber-Krauthgamer, Gali, Impaired Asset Management and the Optimal Timing of Write-Down Decisions (October 29, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3061376 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3061376
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
D Aboody
Recognition versus disclosure in the oil and gas industry
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , p. 21 - 32 Posted: 1996
Crossref
A Arratia
Computational Finance
Statistics of Financial Time Series , volume 2 , p. 37 - 70 Posted: 2014
E Bartov , F W Lindahl , W E Ricksstock
Price behavior around announcements of write-offs
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , p. 327 - 346 Posted: 1998
K Chen
The timing of asset write-downs in the oil and gas industry: 1985-1986
Petroleum Accounting and Financial Management Journal , volume 10 , p. 157 - 169 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,448
RANK
490,025
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies