Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evolution of Corporate Reporting: From Stand-Alone Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting to Integrated Reporting

Research in Accounting Regulations, Forthcoming

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 17-73

17 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2017 Last revised: 8 Nov 2017

Kathleen Hertz Rupley

Portland State University

Darrell Brown

Portland State University - School of Business Administration; Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Management & Entrepreneurship

Scott Marshall

Portland State University - School of Business Administration

Date Written: August 25, 2017

Abstract

Both financial and corporate social responsibility (CSR) reporting are bound by global constraints. A common trait among the reporting systems is a growing movement toward comparability and accountability. Global pressures initially motivated the push toward standalone CSR reporting and now toward integrated reporting. Integrated reports (IR) include financial, economic, governance, and social information in one report. In the United States, integrated reporting is voluntary and only a small number of companies have issued IRs to date. This report provides a history of CSR reporting and then examines whether the non-financial economic, governance and social indicators identified in prior literature as being of interest to retail investors (Cohen et al. 2011) are disclosed in the pioneering U.S. IRs. Descriptive results indicate the initial IRs cover predominately indicators of economic and social performance with little focus on governance. Further analysis indicates that the IRs examined do not, as a rule, provide the information most highly desired by investors (i.e. market share, executive compensation, and product safety). This study provides a baseline for companies preparing IRs and for regulators (i.e. SEC, FASB) in the context of determining future disclosure regulations.

Keywords: Integrated Reports, CSR, Voluntary Disclosure, Non-Financial Reporting, SASB, GRI

Suggested Citation:

Rupley, Kathleen Hertz and Brown, Darrell and Marshall, Scott, Evolution of Corporate Reporting: From Stand-Alone Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting to Integrated Reporting (August 25, 2017). Research in Accounting Regulations, Forthcoming, Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 17-73, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3062403
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
M Al-Akra , P Hutchinson
Family firm disclosure and accounting regulation reform in the Middle East: The case of Jordan
Research in Accounting Regulation , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 101 - 107 Posted: 2013
Crossref
American Electric Power
American Electric Power
Corporate Accountability Report Posted: 2012
P Ashcroft , L M Smith
Corporate social performance and firm risk: a meta-analytic review
Research in Accounting Regulation , volume 20 , p. 127 - 153 Posted: 2008
B Ashforth , B Gibbs
The double-edge of organizational legitimation
Organization Science , volume 1 , p. 177 - 194 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
829
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,507
RANK
67,775
5 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies