Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did the FASB's Simplification Initiative Increase Errors in Analysts' Implied ETR Forecasts? Evidence from Early Adoption of ASU 2016-09

Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming

Posted: 31 Oct 2017 Last revised: 30 Aug 2018

James Brushwood

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Derek Johnston

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Lisa Kutcher

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

James Stekelberg

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 27, 2018

Abstract

Part of the FASB’s broader simplification initiative, ASU 2016-09 was issued on March 30, 2016 and became effective for all firms for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016. ASU 2016-09 simplifies the accounting for the tax effects of stock-based compensation by requiring firms to record all related tax windfalls and shortfalls as components of current income tax expense rather than as direct-to-equity adjustments, as was required under prior guidance. Many observers note this change may introduce significant volatility and uncertainty into firms’ ETRs. Consistent with this concern, we document that errors in analysts’ ‘clean’ ETR forecasts significantly increased among firms reporting a material ETR effect due to early-adopting ASU 2016-09, relative to other firms. Our results suggest that simplification came at the cost of a decrease in the predictability of tax-related financial information; as such, this study provides timely evidence on an important economic consequence of ASU 2016-09.

Keywords: ASU 2016-09, FASB Simplification Initiative, Stock-Based Compensation, Excess Tax Benefits and Deficiencies, Effective Tax Rates, Analyst Forecast Accuracy

Suggested Citation:

Brushwood, James and Johnston, Derek and Kutcher, Lisa and Stekelberg, James, Did the FASB's Simplification Initiative Increase Errors in Analysts' Implied ETR Forecasts? Evidence from Early Adoption of ASU 2016-09 (August 27, 2018). Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3062091 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3062091
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,352
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies