Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Boards’ Gender Diversity and Firm Performance Before and after the Egyptian Revolution

45 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2017

Melsa Ararat

Sabanci University - Sabancı Business School, Corporate Governance Forum

Moataz El-Helaly

School of Business, The American University in Cairo

Nermeen F. Shehata

The American University in Cairo

Date Written: July 1, 2017

Abstract

Given the endogenous and contingent nature of firms’ governance choices, it is not surprising that the results of prior studies investigating the association between board attributes and firm performance are mixed. In this paper, we exploit the presence of an exogenous shock represented in the Egyptian revolution in 2011 to assess the effect of gender diversity in the board on firm performance. Our results show that gender diverse firms perform better when their environment becomes more complex and unpredictable. The presence of foreign directors on the other hand has the opposite effect. Our results challenge the notion that diversity attributes are additive, and underscore the benefits of gender diversity in more complex and unpredictable contexts. Overall, we provide evidence that board structure/diversity-performance relationship is contingent upon the social, political and economic context, and changes in response to external shocks.

Keywords: corporate governance, board diversity, Egypt, firm performance, gender diversity, exogenous shocks, revolution

JEL Classification: G18, G30, G34, G39

Suggested Citation:

Ararat, Melsa and El-Helaly, Moataz and Shehata, Nermeen F., Boards’ Gender Diversity and Firm Performance Before and after the Egyptian Revolution (July 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3063867 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3063867
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
Pamela Abbott , Andrea Teti
Building Decent Societies? Economic Situation and Political Cohesion after the Arab Uprisings
Arab Transformations Working Paper No. 17 Pages: 37 Posted: 11 May 2017 Last revised: 10 Oct 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R B Adams , J De Haan , S Terjesen , H Van Ees
Board diversity: Moving the field forward
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 77 - 82 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Melsa Ararat , Borhan Sayedy
Gender and Climate Change Disclosure: An Interdimensional Policy Approach
Sustainability , volume 11 , issue 24 , p. 7217 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Ahmed M. Abdel-Meguid
Corporate governance in Egypt: The landscape, the research, and future directions
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 18 , issue 3, special issue , p. 296 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,450
RANK
261,368
2 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies