Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Chairmen's Involvement in Audit Committees and Earnings Management Practices

26 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2017

Mujeeb Al-Absy

Abbs Community College-Hajjah

Ku Nor Izah Ku Ismail

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Sitraselvi Chandren

Universiti Utara Malaysia - School of Accountancy

Date Written: November 2, 2017

Abstract

This study investigates the influence of the board chairman’s involvement in the audit committee (AC) (as a proxy of AC independence) on earnings management (EM) practices. We examine Bursa Malaysia listed firms with slight positive earnings for the years 2013 to 2015. Using ordinary least squares regression and the Modified Jones Model by Kasznik as a measure of accruals, this study reveals that an AC that includes its board chairman is associated with greater discretionary accruals and EM. Further, we categorise a board chairman’s involvement in an AC into two types: a board chairman who also serves as the AC chairman (hereafter termed board chairman duality) and a board chairman who sits in the AC as an ordinary member. We find that board chairman duality does not influence EM. However, ACs whose members include the board chairman are associated with EM practices. This study supports agency theory and the initiatives taken by policy-makers to deter board chairmen from serving on ACs. It also alerts policy-makers, firms and their stakeholders, as well as researchers to the importance of having an AC free from the involvement of its board chairman as this will enhance the committee’s effectiveness in curbing EM.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Audit Committee Chairman, Audit Committee Independence, Board Chairman, Board Chairman Involvement

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Al-Absy, Mujeeb and Ku Ismail, Ku Nor Izah and Chandren, Sitraselvi, Board Chairmen's Involvement in Audit Committees and Earnings Management Practices (November 2, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3063845 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3063845
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
J Abarbanell , R Lehavy
Can stock recommendations predict earnings management and analysts' earnings forecast errors
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Abdul-Rahman , F H Ali
Board, audit committee, culture and earnings management: Malaysian evidence
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 21 , issue 7 , p. 783 - 804 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S N Abdullah , K N I Ku Ismail
Women directors, family ownership and earnings management in Malaysia
Asian Review of Accounting , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 525 - 550 Posted: 2016
Crossref
S N Abdullah , K N I Ku Ismail
Do women directors constraint accrual management? Malaysian evidence
the 3rd International Conference on Business and Economics Victoria & Alfrred Waterfront Hotel Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,811
RANK
469,965
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies