Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Disclosures and Financial Performance of Selected Indian Manufacturing and Non-Manufacturing Companies

Accounting and Finance Research, Vol. 6, No. 1, 2017

14 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2017

Nidhi Sahore

Bhavan's Usha & Lakshmi Mittal Institute of Management

Anshul Verma

Institute of Management Technology (IMT), Ghaziabad

Date Written: Januray 26, 2017

Abstract

Disclosures play a pivotal role in addressing the issues related to information asymmetry and agency costs of firms. Voluntary disclosures are those disclosures witch are beyond the compulsory ones and are communicated portraying a better image of the company & its prospects in front of its investors. Therefore this study intends to extend various aspects of corporate disclosure practices, mainly voluntary disclosures of selected Indian companies. Under contract theory and economics, information asymmetry leads to superfluous decisions because of information gap between the parties. It is also important to assess the possible economic consequence of voluntary disclosures i.e. the incentive by way of enhanced firm performance. The effect of increased disclosures on stock prices is of possible interest to investing community and stakeholders at large including the policy makers and regulators. It is not just about the level of disclosures but also the type of disclosures e.g. non financial disclosure like forward looking, social, and environmental which play an important role in finding the association between the two variables. The paper contributes towards literature on voluntary disclosures. Its major contribution is focused towards economic consequences of disclosures by way of better stock returns and implications for Indian stock market regulator to assess the impact of its policy on manufacturing and non-manufacturing companies listed in CNX 100 index of National Stock Exchange.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosures, Stock Returns, Firm Performance, Voluntary Financial Disclosures, Voluntary Non-financial Disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Sahore, Nidhi and Verma, Anshul, Corporate Disclosures and Financial Performance of Selected Indian Manufacturing and Non-Manufacturing Companies (Januray 26, 2017). Accounting and Finance Research, Vol. 6, No. 1, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3063824
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A Al-Razeen , Y Karbhari
Interaction between compulsory and voluntary disclosure in Saudi Arabian corporate annual reports
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 351 - 360 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Crossref
C Botoson
Disclosure level and the Cost of Equity Capital
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 3 , p. 323 - 349 Posted: 1997
F Bravo
Forward-looking Disclosure and Corporate Reputation as Mechanisms to Reduce Stock Return Volatility
Spanish Accounting review , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 122 - 131 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,638
RANK
253,593
2 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies