Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Corporate Social Disclosures: A Meta-Analytical Review

Posted: 7 Nov 2017

Md. Tofael Hossain Majumder

Comilla University

Aklima Akter

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) - Business School

Xiaojing Li

University of Science and Technology Beijing - Donlinks School of Economics and Management

Date Written: November 3, 2017

Abstract

Purpose – This study aims to investigate the association between corporate governance and corporate social disclosures (CSD).

Design/methodology/approach – Data analysis has been conducted on 29 prior studies published between 2004 and 2016 for the purpose of integrating the findings across studies. The study uses the metaanalysis instrument developed by Hunter et al. (1982).

Findings – The investigation finds a significant positive association between board size, the frequency of board meetings and auditors’ credibility with CSD. Both the managerial and concentrated ownership have a significant but negative association with CSD. In contrast, board independence, board gender diversity, the composition of non-executive directors, government ownership, foreign ownership and institutional ownership are insignificantly and positively associated with CSD. CEO duality is also insignificant with CSD but indicates a negative association. The study further investigates that the association between board gender diversity and CSD affected by the differences of the country of study.

Originality/value – This paper adds significance to the extant academic literature as well as assists the appropriate policymaker in assessing the determinants of CSD from the viewpoints of corporate governance. It further aims to reconcile the findings of the previous studies around the world, and also for the developed and developing countries separately.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, Corporate governance, Meta-analysis, Disclosures

JEL Classification: M1, M14

Suggested Citation:

Majumder, Md. Tofael Hossain and Akter, Aklima and Li, Xiaojing, Corporate Governance and Corporate Social Disclosures: A Meta-Analytical Review (November 3, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3064728
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,098
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies