Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SEC Filings, Regulatory Deadlines, and Capital Market Consequences

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2017 Last revised: 3 Dec 2017

Eli Bartov

NYU Stern School of Business

Yaniv Konchitchki

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Date Written: November 30, 2017

Abstract

Timely disclosure of financial statement information is a critical requirement for firms and well-functioning capital markets. Yet, every quarter or year, a non-trivial number of firms are late in filing their financial statements. This paper identifies and probes various capital market consequences for late filings of quarterly and annual financial statements. It examines the short- and long-window reaction to late filings, as well as how equity investors process statements accompanying late filing announcements, such as managers declaring intentions to file within/outside SEC’s allowed grace periods. The paper documents that delayed quarterly filings have distinctly different valuation implications than delayed annual filings over the short and long run, and that accounting problems play a unique role in signaling the seriousness of the delay. It also shows that investors do not accept managements’ delay-related assertions at face value, and that delayed filing announcements signal continued poor performance that is not fully reflected in stock prices at the time the announcements are made. One particularly surprising finding is that stock prices drop significantly as soon as firms signal late statement filings via the regulatory form, even when management declares it will meet the extended deadline. Overall, this paper sheds new light on important capital market consequences of filing financial statements late.

Keywords: Asset Pricing, Accounting Problems, SEC Filings, Financial Statements, Market Efficiency

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bartov, Eli and Konchitchki, Yaniv, SEC Filings, Regulatory Deadlines, and Capital Market Consequences (November 30, 2017). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3065694
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
M Aguilar
Late filings up, but don't blame the deadlines. Compliance Week Posted: 2007-03-27
A W Alford , J J Jones , M E Zmijewski
Extensions and violations of the statutory SEC form 10-K filing requirements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , p. 229 - 254 Posted: 1994
Crossref
K Balakrishnan , E Bartov , L Faurel
Post loss/profit announcement drift
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 20 - 41 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball , E Bartov
How naive is the stock market's use of earnings information?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 319 - 337 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Karim Bannouh , Jiewei Geng , Bas Peeters
Filing, Fast and Slow: Reporting Lag and Stock Returns
47 Pages · Posted: 8 Aug 2019 · Last revised: 24 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 600
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
404
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,507
RANK
166,639
1 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Law School, John M. Olin Program in Law & Economics Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies