Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Consequences of Implementing and Communicating Value Based Management Systems

Forthcoming in Journal of Business Finance and Accounting

58 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2017

Wolfgang Schultze

University of Augsburg

Thomas List

University of Augsburg

Bettina Schabert

University of Augsburg

Tami Dinh

University of St. Gallen, Institute of Accounting, Control, Auditing

Date Written: March 30, 2016

Abstract

We study the consequences of implementing and communicating Value Based Management (VBM) systems on information asymmetries and the cost of capital. We analyse the firms’ reporting on internal control systems as the source of information for market participants. In addition, literature posits that improving communications with shareholders by providing additional information on value generation (Value Based Reporting, VBR) is an integral part of implementing VBM. We find that the implementation of VBM and the extent of VBR are, both individually and jointly, significantly related to lower information asymmetries and lower cost of capital. We find a slight moderation of the effect of VBM by VBR. For increasing VBR, we find that information asymmetries and cost of capital decrease more strongly for firms without implemented VBM systems. This indicates that VBR can to some extent substitute VBM. Overall, however, firms using a combination of VBM and VBR attain lower levels of information asymmetry and cost of capital. We provide evidence for the real effects of disclosure, suggesting that disclosures on internal control systems serve as a governance mechanism, reducing information asymmetries and the cost of capital by aligning shareholders’ and managers’ interests.

Keywords: Cost of Capital, Disclosure, Information Asymmetry, Shareholder Value, Value Based Management

JEL Classification: M40, M41, C26

Suggested Citation:

Schultze, Wolfgang and List, Thomas and Schabert, Bettina and Dinh, Tami, Economic Consequences of Implementing and Communicating Value Based Management Systems (March 30, 2016). Forthcoming in Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3065169
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
142 References
D Aboody , B Lev
The Value Relevance of Intangibles: The Case of Software Capitalization'
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
Crossref
K Ahmed , J K Courtis
Associations between Corporate Characteristics and Disclosure Levels in Annual Reports: a Meta-Analysis , volume 31 , p. 35 - 61 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Improving Business Reporting: A Customer Focus
Comprehensive Report of the Special Committee on Financial Reporting (Jenkins Committee Report) Posted: 1994
Load more
1 Citations
Sven Hörner , Friedrich Sommer
Value-based Management Sophistication and Earnings Management
56 Pages · Posted: 12 Jul 2023 · Last revised: 20 Aug 2025 · Downloads: 162
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,630
RANK
580,030
1 Citations
142 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies