Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures and Performance on Firm Value: A Review of the Literature in Accounting and Finance

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2017

Chris Brooks

University of Reading - ICMA Centre

Ioannis Oikonomou

University of Reading - ICMA Centre

Date Written: November 4, 2017

Abstract

This paper not only attempts to survey the burgeoning literature on environmental, social and governance disclosures and performance and their effects on firm value, but its focus also lies on highlighting stylised observations coming from the most recent work that has not yet become part of the ‘conventional wisdom’ in the field. In addition, it outlines some of the crucial knowledge gaps and interesting questions that have not, as of yet, been addressed and thus outlines a potential agenda for future research on socially responsible investing. Lastly, it introduces the papers published in this special issue of the British Accounting Review.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility (Csr), Environmental Social And Governance (Esg) Disclosures, Firm Value, Stock Market Performance, Literature Review, Socially Responsible Investing (Sri), Ethical Investing

JEL Classification: G19, M14

Suggested Citation:

Brooks, Chris and Oikonomou, Ioannis, The Effects of Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures and Performance on Firm Value: A Review of the Literature in Accounting and Finance (November 4, 2017). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3065345
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
158 References
M L Barnett , R M Salomon
Beyond dichotomy: The curvilinear relationship between social responsibility and financial performance
Strategic Management Journal , volume 27 , issue 11 , p. 1101 - 1122 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M L Barnett , R M Salomon
Does it pay to be really good? Addressing the shape of the relationship between social and financial performance
Strategic Management Journal , volume 33 , issue 11 , p. 1304 - 1320 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R Bauer , D Hann
Corporate environmental management and credit risk Available at SSRN 1660470 Posted: 2010
K J Bebbington , R Gray
An account of sustainability: failure, success and reconceptualisation
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 12 , p. 557 - 587 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,829
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,491
RANK
21,423
61 Citations
158 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies