Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Investor Attention and Firm Disclosure

59 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2017 Last revised: 25 Nov 2019

Inna Abramova

London Business School

John E. Core

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Andrew Sutherland

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: November 23, 2019

Abstract

We study how short-term changes in institutional owner attention affect managers’ disclosure choices. Holding institutional ownership constant and controlling for industry-quarter effects, we find that managers respond to attention by increasing the number of forecasts and 8-K filings. Rather than alter the decision of whether to forecast or to provide more informative disclosures, attention causes minor disclosure adjustments. This variation in disclosure is primarily driven by passive investors. Although attention explains significant variation in the quantity of disclosure, we find little change in abnormal volume and volatility, the bid-ask spread, or depth. Overall, our evidence suggests that management responds to temporary institutional investor attention by making disclosures that have little effect on information quality or liquidity.

Keywords: disclosure, management forecasts, liquidity, institutional ownership, passive investors, corporate governance, monitoring

JEL Classification: G23, G32, G34, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Abramova, Inna and Core, John E. and Sutherland, Andrew, Institutional Investor Attention and Firm Disclosure (November 23, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3066136 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3066136
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
Industry concentration and corporate disclosure policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
Crossref
D Anantharaman , Y Zhang
Cover me: Managers' responses to changes in analyst coverage in the post-Regulation FD period
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 6 , p. 1851 - 1885 Posted: 2011
Crossref
I R Appel , T A Gormley , D B Keim
Passive investors, not passive owners
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 141 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Riddha Basu , Spencer Pierce , Andrew Stephan
The Effect of Investor Inattention on non-GAAP Disclosure
Pages: 51 Posted: 16 Nov 2017 Last revised: 4 Aug 2025
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,643
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,962
RANK
25,279
10 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies