Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Uncertainty, Information, and Shareholder Democracy: Evidence from Voting on Shareholder Proposals

53 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2017 Last revised: 9 Jun 2019

Xiao Li

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy

Jeffrey Ng

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Hong Wu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 2019

Abstract

An integral aspect of shareholder democracy is the shareholder proposal process, through which shareholders can pressure firms to make changes. We find that shareholders’ uncertainty about the firm reduces their participation in voting on shareholder proposals and also reduces the likelihood of the proposals’ passage and implementation. In further analyses, we find that the negative effects of uncertainty on the shareholder proposal process are mitigated when there is comparable peer information and more information intermediation. Overall, our paper provides new insight into the role of shareholder uncertainty and the information environment in a shareholder democracy.

Keywords: shareholder activism, shareholder proposals, peer information

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xiao and Ng, Jeffrey and Wu, Hong, Uncertainty, Information, and Shareholder Democracy: Evidence from Voting on Shareholder Proposals (June 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3066006 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3066006
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,283
RANK
339,258
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies