Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Google Perceives Customer Privacy, Cyber, E-Commerce, Political and Regulatory Compliance Risks

10 William & Mary Business Law Review (2018)

61 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2017 Last revised: 6 Jun 2022

Lawrence J. Trautman

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business; Texas A&M University School of Law (By Courtesy)

Date Written: December 31, 2017

Abstract

By now, almost every business has an internet presence. What are the major risks perceived by those engaged in Internet businesses? What potential risks, if they become reality, may cause substantial increases in operating costs or threaten the very survival of the enterprise? This article discusses the relevant annual report disclosures from Alphabet Inc. (parent of Google), along with other Google documents. Most of the descriptive language to follow is excerpted directly from Alphabet’s (Google) regulatory filings. After discussing recent changes in the cyber-threat landscape, these disclosure materials are woven into a logical presentation and provide supplemental sources for those who desire a deeper look (usually in my footnotes) of any particular aspect. I’ve sought to present a roadmap with these materials that shows Google’s struggle to optimize their business performance while navigating through a complicated maze of regulatory compliance concerns and issues involving governmental jurisdictions throughout the world. International cyber crime and risk issues follow, with an examination of anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist, and other potential illegal activity laws.

The value proposition offered here is disarmingly simple ̶ at no out-of-pocket cost, the reader has an opportunity to invest a few hours to read and reflect upon the Alphabet Inc. (Google) multiple-million-dollar research, investment and documentation of perceived Internet, e-commerce, cyber, IT, privacy, and electronic payment system risks. Hopefully, this will prove of value to those interested in the rapidly changing dynamics of (1) privacy issues, (2) Internet e-commerce and site operations, or (3) those engaged in regulatory compliance activities.

Keywords: Alphabet, Inc., AML, antitrust, brands, commercial law, computer crime, consumer protection, corporate governance, cybercrime, e-commerce, disclosure, electronic payments, entrepreneurship, Google, internet payment, law and technology, privacy, risk, search, securities regulation, terrorism

JEL Classification: A10, B25, C99, D12, D23, D44, D63, E40, K11, L82, L83, L86, M30, O34, P50

Suggested Citation:

Trautman, Lawrence J., How Google Perceives Customer Privacy, Cyber, E-Commerce, Political and Regulatory Compliance Risks (December 31, 2017). 10 William & Mary Business Law Review (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3067298 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3067298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
158 References
New Businesses and Products
Suits, and Government Investigations
Lawrence J Trautman
Is Disruptive Blockchain Technology the Future of Financial Services?
Payment Systems: What Gives?, 38 CARDOZO L. REV. 1041 Posted: 2016
J Lawrence , ; Trautman , Mt Gox , ? , Rich J L Tech , Sept , J Lawrence , David D Trautman , Schein
Article No. 13 at ¶1; see generally
Virtual Currencies: Bitcoin & What Now After Liberty Reserve, Silk Road , volume 16 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
572
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,550
RANK
109,744
14 Citations
158 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies