Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of Firm-Manager Match Quality in the Executive Labor Market

49 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2017 Last revised: 7 Sep 2021

Matthew Ma

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting

Jing Pan

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting

Xue Wang

Ohio State University - Fisher College of Business

Date Written: August 2, 2021

Abstract

We use a three way mixed-effects model to quantify firm-manager match effects in executive compensation, and find that unobservable match heterogeneity explains a considerable proportion of the compensation variation. Firms compensate managers for productivity generated by the efficient match, so we propose a measure of firm-manager match quality based on the match effects in executive pay. We validate the proposed measure by showing that it captures systematic firm-manager complementarities and that it is positively and significantly associated with firm operating performance. We also find significant negative stock market reactions to the news of sudden deaths of CEOs with higher match quality, which helps address the concern that our match quality measure captures managerial rent extraction. Further, we show that match quality is an economically significant factor in CEO turnover decisions, an aspect of the executive labor market that features matching consideration prominently.

Keywords: executive compensation, firm-manager match quality, match effects, mixed effects model

JEL Classification: G30, G32, J24, J31, J33, C23

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Matthew and Pan, Jing and Wang, Xue, An Examination of Firm-Manager Match Quality in the Executive Labor Market (August 2, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3067808 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3067808
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
J M Abowd , F Kramarz , D N Margolis
High wage workers and high wage firms
Econometrica , volume 67 , issue 2 , p. 251 - 334 Posted: 1999
J M Abowd , F Kramarz , P Lengermann , S Perez-Duarte
Are good workers employed by good firms? A test of a simple assortative matching model for France and the United States Posted: 2004
J M Abowd , F Kramarz , S Woodcock
Econometric analysis of linked employeremployee data Posted: 2006
V Acharya , P Volpin
Corporate governance externalities
Review of Finance , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,753
RANK
248,977
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies