Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Imperfect Accounting and Reporting Bias

Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 55, No. 4, 2017

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 17-77

Posted: 14 Nov 2017

Vivian W. Fang

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Indiana University

Allen H. Huang

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology - Department of Accounting

Wenyu Wang

Vanderbilt University - Finance Department; Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 1, 2017

Abstract

Errors and bias are both inherent features of accounting. In theory, while errors discourage bias by lowering the value relevance of accounting, they can also facilitate bias by providing camouflage. Consistent with theory, we find a hump-shaped relation between a firm's propensity to engage in intentional misstatement and the prevalence of unintentional misstatements in the firm's industry for the whole economy and a majority of the industries. The result is robust to using firms' number of items in financial statements and exposure to complex accounting rules as alternative proxies for errors and to using the restatement amount in net income to quantify the magnitude of bias and errors. To directly test for the two effects of errors, we show that when errors are more prevalent, the market reacts less to firms' earnings surprises and bias is more difficult to detect. Our results highlight the imperfectness of accounting, advance understanding of firms' reporting incentives, and shed light on accounting standard setting.

Keywords: accounting errors; reporting bias; fraud; accounting regulation; earnings response coefﬁcient; fraud detection; textual analysis

JEL Classification: G32; G34; G38; M40; M41; M48; M53

Suggested Citation:

Fang, Vivian W. and Huang, Allen H. and Wang, Wenyu, Imperfect Accounting and Reporting Bias (September 1, 2017). Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 55, No. 4, 2017, Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 17-77, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3068872
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,730
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies