Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Learning about the Details in CEO Compensation

58 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2017 Last revised: 1 Aug 2018

Shuting (Sophia) Hu

Baylor University - Department of Finance, Insurance & Real Estate

Date Written: March 22, 2018

Abstract

I document the richness of CEO compensation packages and show that boards learn about the desirability of the many complex package features through observing how these features are associated with firm performance. I first capture the detailed features of plan-based awards for CEOs of the largest U.S. public firms in a vector with more than 1,300 elements. I then demonstrate the complexity of boards' decisions on adding and dropping the detailed features. I hypothesize that boards learn about the efficacy of complex features by observing their correlation with performance—both at their own firms and at other firms. To test these hypotheses, I measure the similarity between any two compensation packages using a metric that assigns a shorter distance to more similar packages. My results support my learning hypotheses: firms that perform well in the current year award similar packages to their CEOs in the following year, whereas firms that perform poorly significantly change their packages in the following year; moreover, firms adjust their own CEO compensation packages to be more similar to that of well-performing firms, and less similar to that of poorly performing firms. These results hold after controlling for the effects from compensation peer firms, compensation-consultant sharing firms, board interlocking firms, and product market peers. I further show that a focal firm experiences better performance when its CEO compensation package becomes more similar to those used by its well-performing compensation benchmark firms. This paper demonstrates the importance of capturing the multi-dimensional details of CEO plan-based awards and studying changes in compensation packages in a holistic manner.

Keywords: CEO compensation, executive incentives, compensation packages, contracts, corporate governance, board of directors

JEL Classification: G30, G34, J33, M12, M52

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Shuting, Learning about the Details in CEO Compensation (March 22, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3069824 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3069824
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Ana Albuquerque , Mary Ellen Carter , Luann J Lynch
Complexity of CEO compensation packages Posted: 2015
Benjamin Bennett , J Carr Bettis , Radhakrishnan Gopalan , Todd Milbourn
Compensation goals and firm performance
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2017
Crossref
Carr Bettis , John Bizjak , Jeffrey Coles , Swaminathan Kalpathy
Stock and option grants with performance-based vesting provisions
Review of Financial Studies Posted: 2010
Crossref
J. Carr Bettis , John M. Bizjak , Jeffrey L. Coles , Swaminathan L. Kalpathy
Performance-Vesting Provisions in Executive Compensation
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 66, 2018 Pages: 66 Posted: 4 Jul 2013 Last revised: 19 Oct 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
349
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,075
RANK
196,357
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies