Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contagious Stock Price Crashes along the Supply Chain

Production and Operations Management, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2017 Last revised: 16 Apr 2024

Buhui Qiu

The University of Sydney - Discipline of Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Fangming Xu

University of Bristol Business School

Andy Yeung

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Department of Logistics and Maritime Studies

Cheng (Colin) Zeng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: April 7, 2024

Abstract

Although risk management is widely regarded as an important topic within supply chain (SC) management, little research studies the contagious effect of risk factors along SC networks. By using stock price crashes as an indicator of risk factors, our study reveals that stock price crash risk can be transmitted from major customers to suppliers with a delay of up to two weeks. We show that the information opacity of suppliers is a factor that potentially contributes to the delayed crash contagion. We also find that the contagion effect becomes more pronounced as the importance of customers increases. Moreover, customer operational incidents have a more pronounced contagion effect on suppliers compared to customer financial incidents. Additionally, we find that suppliers tend to take strategic measures following the stock price crashes of their major customers, including diversifying their customer base, enhancing operational efficiency, and improving product quality. However, among these actions, only the improvement of operational efficiency effectively mitigates the adverse impact of customer stock price crashes on suppliers. Overall, our findings provide new insight into the distribution of risk factors across SC networks, highlighting the critical role of operational improvements in bolstering the resilience of firms to SC risks.

Keywords: Supply chain risk, contagion effects, stock price crashes, operational incidents, financial incidents

Suggested Citation:

Qiu, Buhui and Xu, Fangming and Yeung, Andy and Zeng, Cheng, Contagious Stock Price Crashes along the Supply Chain (April 7, 2024). Production and Operations Management, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3069993 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3069993
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
S Agca , V Babich , J R Birge , J Wu
Credit shock propagation along supply chains: Evidence from the CDS market
Management Science , volume 68 , issue 9 , p. 6506 - 6538 Posted: 2022
Ş Ağca , J R Birge , Z A Wang , J Wu
The impact of COVID-19 on supply chain credit risk , volume 32 , p. 4088 - 4113 Posted: 2023
B K Ak , S Rossi , R Sloan , S Tracy
Navigating stock price crashes
Journal of Portfolio Management , volume 42 , issue 4 , p. 28 - 37 Posted: 2016
K D Aral , E Giambona , Y Wang
Buyer's bankruptcy risk, sourcing strategy, and firm value: Evidence from the supplier protection act
Management Science , volume 68 , issue 11 , p. 7940 - 7957 Posted: 2022
Load more
3 Citations
Tri Tri Nguyen , Manh Cuong Nguyen , Hung Quang Bui , Tuyet Nhung Vu
The cash-holding link within the supply chain
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting Posted: 2021
Crossref
Aaron Burt , Christopher Hrdlicka
Where Does the Predictability from Sorting on Returns of Economically Linked Firms Come From?
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , p. 1 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Tri Tri Nguyen , Manh Cuong Nguyen , Hung Bui , Tuyet Nhung Vu
The Cash-holding Link within the Supply Chain
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting · 47 Pages · Posted: 10 Apr 2020 · Last revised: 5 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 143
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
738
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,627
RANK
79,080
3 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies