Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of the Audit Committee and the Informativeness of Accounting Earnings in East Asia

Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, Vol. 23, (2013) 1-24

57 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2017

Tracie Woidtke

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business

Yin‐Hua Yeh

National Chiao-Tung University

Date Written: October 10, 2012

Abstract

Policy makers around the world have focused on corporate governance reform since the Asian financial crisis and scandals in the United States such as the Enron debacle. In particular, policy makers have focused on the establishment of independent audit committees to improve investor confidence in reported accounting information. In a sample of East Asian companies, we find that the negative relation between concentrated control and earnings informativeness that was documented prior to the Asian financial crisis persists in a more recent period, even though many corporate governance reforms have been adopted since the crisis to improve financial disclosure. We do, however, find that earnings informativeness is strengthened by both fully independent audit committees and audit committees with a majority of independent directors with accounting financial or legal expertise. In addition, the increased reliability that is associated with these audit committee characteristics appears to more than offset the detrimental effect that is associated with concentrated control. The results in this paper suggest that an emphasis on audit committee independence alone may not be enough to enhance earnings informativeness. Instead, focusing on both complete independence and the financial or legal expertise of independent directors who are appointed to the audit committee may be a more fruitful way to increase investor confidence in accounting information, especially when ownership is concentrated.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Ownership, Earnings informativeness, Audit committee

JEL Classification: G34, G32

Suggested Citation:

Woidtke, Tracie and Yeh, Yin‐Hua, The Role of the Audit Committee and the Informativeness of Accounting Earnings in East Asia (October 10, 2012). Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, Vol. 23, (2013) 1-24, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3069009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate Governance and Accounting Scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board Characteristics, Accounting Report Integrity, and the Cost of Debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Building Stronger Boards and Companies in Asia, A Concise Report on Corporate Governance Policies and Practices Posted: 2000
R Ball , A Robin , J Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Saseela Balagobei , Velnampy Thirunavukkarasu
Impact of Audit Committee on Organizational Performance of Listed Hotels and Travels in Sri Lanka
Balagobei, S. (2018). Impact of Audit Committee on Organizational Performance of Listed Hotels and Travels in Sri Lanka. International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting, 8(4), 352-369 · 18 Pages · Posted: 26 Jan 2020 · Downloads: 579
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Géraldine Broye , Pauline Johannes
Determinants of Audit Committee Effectiveness: Reviewing a Decade of Empirical Research
Forthcoming Comptabilité Contrôle Audit – Accounting Auditing Control, · 52 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 388
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,467
RANK
658,366
2 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies