Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Effects of Reporting Key Audit Matters on Auditors' Judgment of Accounting Estimates

Posted: 15 Nov 2017

Karsten Asbahr

Free University of Berlin (FUB) - Department of Finance, Accounting and Taxation

Klaus Ruhnke

Freie Universitaet Berlin - Department of Finance, Accounting and Taxation

Date Written: March 3, 2017

Abstract

This experimental study analyses whether reporting an accounting estimate as a key audit matter (KAM) can influence auditors' judgment about the reported estimate under the varying condition of implicit or no client pressure. Using the theory of moral licensing, motivated reasoning and accountability, we find that auditors' professional judgment about the reasonableness of a biased accounting estimate is not affected by the KAM reporting requirement and client pressure. Professional action in the form of the likelihood and amount of proposed adjustments is significantly lower when the accounting estimate will be reported as a KAM. Instead of enhancing professional skepticism, our results provide preliminary evidence that the format of reporting KAM can serve as moral license to waive an adjustment. Overall, our study contributes to the current debate about the audit reporting model showing that reporting KAM might have diametrical 'real effects' on auditors' judgment.

Keywords: accountability, accounting estimates, auditor judgment, audit reporting, client pressure, key audit matters, moral licensing, real effects

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Asbahr, Karsten and Ruhnke, Klaus, Real Effects of Reporting Key Audit Matters on Auditors' Judgment of Accounting Estimates (March 3, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3069755 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3069755
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,407
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies