Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Tax Efficiency of Startup Firms

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2017 Last revised: 17 Mar 2022

Eric J. Allen

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - School of Business Administration

Jeffrey C. Allen

Bentley University

Sharat Raghavan

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

David H. Solomon

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Date Written: August 11, 2021

Abstract

We examine the choice of organizational structure for VC-backed startup firms. These firms overwhelmingly organize as C-corporations rather than as tax advantaged limited liability companies (LLCs). This results in foregone tax savings of $43.9 billion, or 4.9% of the total equity invested in the sample firms. The decision is puzzling given plausible estimates of the direct costs involved, but appears related to ‘hassle,’ and other transition costs generated by participants implementing a new form. Firms with more employees and investors are likely to choose the C-corporation. VCs appear to prefer the C-corporation form, as receiving VC money is associated with most LLC firms switching to a C-corporation within 30 days. Greater VC preferences for C-corporations are linked to a preference for familiarity, and less attention to taxes.

Keywords: Venture Capital, Startups, Tax, Behavioral Finance, CEOs

JEL Classification: G24, G32, H26

Suggested Citation:

Allen, Eric J. and Allen, Jeffrey and Raghavan, Sharat and Solomon, David H., On the Tax Efficiency of Startup Firms (August 11, 2021). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3069256 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3069256
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
References Auerbach , A J , A J Auerbach , M Feldstein
Taxation and corporate financial policy
Handbook of Public Economics Posted: 2002
B C Ayers , B Bloyd , J R Robinson
Organizational form and taxes: An empirical analysis of small businesses
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 18 , p. 49 - 67 Posted: 1996
J Bankman
The structure of Silicon Valley start-ups
UCLA Law Review , volume 41 , p. 1737 - 1768 Posted: 1994
B M Barber , Y Lee , Y Liu , T Odean
Just how much do individual investors lose by trading?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 609 - 632 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
409
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,595
RANK
164,283
2 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies