Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multinational Ownership Structures and Anti Tax Avoidance Legislation

69 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2017 Last revised: 23 Jul 2020

Dominik von Hagen

University of Mannheim - Department of Business Administration and Taxation

Axel Prettl

University of Tuebingen - Research School of International Taxation (RSIT)

Date Written: December 24, 2018

Abstract

This study investigates if controlled foreign corporation (CFC) rules influence cross-border merger and acquisition (M&A) activity on a global scale. CFC rules are one main anti-tax avoidance measure and potentially lead to immediate taxation of foreign subsidiaries' income at the parent level, without the necessity of repatriation. Analyzing a large corporate M&A data set and self-compiled detailed CFC rule data from 27 countries using two different econometric perspectives, we show if and how CFC rules distort firm behaviour in global ownership patterns. First, we show that the probability of being the acquirer of a low-tax target decreases if CFC rules may be applicable to this target's income. Second, we show that CFC rules alter the acquirer's choice of targets' location. Altogether, our study shows that for affected acquirer countries, CFC rules lead to less M&A activity in low-tax countries due to potentially reduced incentives to shift income.
However, these effects appear to be rather small in size and decrease over time with CFC rules aligning among countries in recent years. Therefore, our study suggests that CFC rules do not seem to bias M&A markets as lobby groups partially claim and policymakers can be more confident in reaching their goals with this increasingly important anti tax avoidance rule.

Keywords: International Taxation, CFC Rules, Profit Shifting, Mergers and Acquisitions, M&A, Multinational Entities

JEL Classification: F23, G34, H25, H26, H32, H73

Suggested Citation:

von Hagen, Dominik and Prettl, Axel, Multinational Ownership Structures and Anti Tax Avoidance Legislation (December 24, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3070357 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3070357
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Rosanne Altshuler , R Glenn Hubbard
The effect of the tax reform act of 1986 on the location of assets in financial services firms
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , p. 109 - 127 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Wiji Arulampalam , Michael Devereux , Federica Liberini
Taxes and the location of targets
CBT Oxford Working Paper , p. 1 - 53 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Benjamin Ayers , Craig Lefanowicz , John Robinson
Capital Gains Taxes and Acquisition Activity: Evidence of the Lock-in Effect
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 24 , p. 315 - 344 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Benjamin C Ayers , E Craig , John R Lefanowicz , Robinson
Shareholder Taxes in Acquisition Premiums: The Effect of Capital Gains Taxation
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 2783 - 2801 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,198
RANK
276,216
2 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies