Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Affecting Dividend Policy of Commercial Banks in Pakistan (2005-2012)

18 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2017

Muhammad Rashid Iqbal

Allama Iqbal Open University - Management Sciences, Students

S. Amir Shah

Allama Iqbal Open University

Date Written: November 14, 2017

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of the paper is to find the factors which affect dividend policy of commercial banks in Pakistan.

Design/Methodology/Approach – The paper examines the factors affecting dividend policy of commercial banks in Pakistan using Primary as well as secondary data. The primary data consists of feedback from Board of Directors and the higher management involved in dividend paying decision of Commercial banks while secondary data includes analysis of financial statements of commercial banks in Pakistan.

Findings – The paper finds that the dividend policy of commercial banks in Pakistan is influenced by the five major factors which are Prior Dividend, Earnings Growth, Size of the Bank, Poor Management and Market to book value of the share. First three factors affect dividend policy positively and last two affect it negatively.

Practical Implications – The practical implication of the paper is that managers should consider the factors also keeping in view the profit maximization of shareholder should control the controllable factors like Non-Performing loans.

Originality/value – The paper investigates the factors that affect the dividend policy and also consider the behavioral issue of dividend payments.

Keywords: Dividend Policy, Commercial Banks' Dividend Policy, Pakistani Commercial Banks' Dividend Policy

Suggested Citation:

Iqbal, Muhammad Rashid and Amir Shah, Syed, Factors Affecting Dividend Policy of Commercial Banks in Pakistan (2005-2012) (November 14, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3070856 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3070856
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
N Adhikari
Managers' Views on Dividend Policy of Napelese Enterprises
NRB ECONOMIC REVIEW
J Al-Ajmi , H. Abo Hussain
Corporate dividends decisions: evidence from Saudi Arabia
The Journal of Risk Finance , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 56 Posted: 2011
Crossref
B Al-Najjar
Dividend behaviour and smoothing new evidence from Jordanian panel data
Studies in Economics and Finance , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 182 - 197 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Ameer
Product market competition, regulation and dividend payout policy of Malaysian banks
Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 318 - 334 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,306
RANK
357,435
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies