Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tell It Like It Is: Success and the Quality of M&A Deal Announcements

30 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2017 Last revised: 21 Nov 2017

Scott Moeller

City, University of London - Bayes Business School - Faculty of Finance

Anna Faelten

City University London - The Business School

Jeetesh Singh

City University London - The Business School

Date Written: June 6, 2014

Abstract

Corporate communication during an M&A transaction is one of the biggest challenges for all of the stakeholders involved. This article analyses the importance of communication in M&A deals and its significance in the early stages of the transaction. It discusses the factors associated with the quality of the initial announcement quality and its impact on deal completion and short-term wealth creation by looking at individual elements, such as types of communication and deal, strategic rationale, leadership statements, etc. In summary, the analysis shows that clear proactive communication of the deal before the start of the trading on the day of announcement, with a clearly defined strategic rationale ratified via leadership statements explicitly present in the announcements, aids in deal consummation and shareholders who understand the deal better, thereby providing a better short-term return for the shares of the companies involved than the shares of companies announcing deals who did not adopt such a communications strategy.

Keywords: M&A, Corporate Communications, Deal Success, PR

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Moeller, Scott and Faelten, Anna and Singh, Jeetesh, Tell It Like It Is: Success and the Quality of M&A Deal Announcements (June 6, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3070992 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3070992
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,814
RANK
576,053
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies