Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revisiting Stock Option Exercise and CEO Overconfidence

36 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2017 Last revised: 22 Dec 2023

Chris Mace

University of Texas at Dallas, Naveen Jindal School of Management, Department of Finance

Date Written: December 01, 2023

Abstract

A growing body of literature argues that CEOs are irrationally overconfident. I find that the most commonly used measure of overconfidence, holding deep-in-the-money options, may be less of a behavioral bias than previously thought.  CEOs who hold deep-in-the-money options make a substantial profit,  consistently earning returns above the S\&P500 with significant Fama-French five-factor alphas.  Previous literature has also shown that holding deep-in-the-money options is correlated with increased innovation.  I find that the relationship does not seem to be causal.

Keywords: CEO, Overconfidence, Behavioral Finance, Covariate Imbalance, Profitability

JEL Classification: G02, G12, G17, G32, M10

Suggested Citation:

Mace, Chris, Revisiting Stock Option Exercise and CEO Overconfidence (December 01, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3070678 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3070678
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Paul D Allison
Fixed effects regression models , volume 160 Posted: 2009
Suman Banerjee , Lili Dai , Mark Humphery-Jenner , Vikram , Nanda
Governance, Board Inattention, and the Appointment of Overconfident CEOs
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 113 Posted: 2020
Suman Banerjee , Mark Humphery-Jenner , Vikram Nanda
Restraining overconfident CEOs Posted: 2013
Eli Bartov , Partha Mohanram
Private information, earnings manipulations, and executive stock-option exercises
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 4 , p. 889 - 920 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
283
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,297
RANK
246,297
1 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies