Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Litigation and Corporate Disclosure: Evidence from Derivative Lawsuits

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2018-79

59 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2017 Last revised: 18 Dec 2017

Thomas Bourveau

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Yun Lou

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Rencheng Wang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 14, 2017

Abstract

Using the staggered adoption of universal demand (UD) laws in the United States, we study the effect of shareholder litigation risk on corporate disclosure. We find that disclosure significantly increases after UD laws make it more difficult to file derivative lawsuits. Specifically, firms issue more earnings forecasts and voluntary 8-K filings, and increase the length of management discussion and analysis (MD&A) in their 10-K filings. We further assess the direct and indirect channels through which UD laws affect firms’ disclosure policies. We find that the effect of UD laws on corporate disclosure is driven by firms facing relatively higher ex ante derivative litigation risk and higher operating uncertainty, as well as firms for which shareholder litigation is a more important mechanism to discipline managers.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Derivative Lawsuits, Corporate Disclosure, Shareholder Litigation, Universal Demand Laws

JEL Classification: M41, G10

Suggested Citation:

Bourveau, Thomas and Lou, Yun and Wang, Rencheng, Shareholder Litigation and Corporate Disclosure: Evidence from Derivative Lawsuits (November 14, 2017). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2018-79, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3071006 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3071006
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
B ; S Ajinkya , ; Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A ; S Ali , ; Klasa , E Yeug
Industry concentration and corporate disclosure policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Ian Appel
Governance by Litigation
Pages: 53 Posted: 7 Sep 2015 Last revised: 1 Jul 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C ; W Armstrong , J Guay; , Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
700
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,979
RANK
84,763
65 Citations
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies