Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Structure and Auditor Selection

Managerial Auditing Journal, forthcoming.

27 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2017 Last revised: 5 Oct 2020

Curtis M. Hall

Drexel University - Bennett S. LeBow College of Business

Benjamin W. Hoffman

Cleveland State University

Zenghui Liu

Western Washington University - Accounting

Date Written: July 13, 2020

Abstract

Purpose: This paper investigates the effect that ownership structure (public vs. private) has on the demand for high-quality auditors, specifically in the U.S. banking industry.

Design/Methodology/Approach: We predict that public banks are more likely to hire a high-quality auditor than private banks and pay a higher audit fee premium for that high-quality auditor (due to higher agency costs, more demand for financial information and higher litigation risk). We analyze 2008-2014 banking data from the Federal Reserve using probit and OLS regression analysis to examine if there is a higher probability that public banks choose higher quality auditors and pay higher audit fees when they do so.

Findings: Our results show that private banks are less likely to hire Big 4 auditors and industry-expert auditors than public banks. We also find that both private and public banks pay higher audit fees for Big 4 and industry-expert auditors, and that public banks pay a higher premium for Big 4 auditors and industry experts than private banks.

Research Limitations/Implications: Our findings may not be full generalizable to other types of firms, as banking is a heavily regulated and complex industry. However, inferences from our study may be generalizable to other similar industries such as insurance or healthcare.

Practical Implications: The results of this paper imply that public and private banks have differing priorities when hiring their financial statement auditor. This may be of interest to investors and auditing regulators.

Social Implications: The findings of this paper underscore the value of hiring an industry-expert auditor in an industry that is highly complex and regulated. This may be of interest to managers and policymakers.

Originality/Value: Due to data restrictions, the emphasis of prior literature on the banking industry has been on public banks. Our study is the first to analyze the differences between public and private banks’ demand for audit services.

Keywords: ownership structure, auditor selection, auditor choice, audit fees, banking

Suggested Citation:

Hall, Curtis M. and Hoffman, Benjamin W. and Liu, Zenghui, Ownership Structure and Auditor Selection (July 13, 2020). Managerial Auditing Journal, forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3072734 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3072734
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
J Asker , J Farre-Mensa , A Ljungqvist
Corporate investment and stock market listing: a puzzle
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , p. 342 - 390 Posted: 2014
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Balsam , J Krishnan , Yang , J S
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Sudipta Basu , Lee-Seok Hwang , Ching-Lih Jan
Differences in Conservatism between Big Eight and Non-Big Eight Auditors
Pages: 58 Posted: 3 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
314
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,004
RANK
220,473
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies