Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Audit Regulation on the Effect of Corporate Governance and Audit Quality on Earnings Management

OIDA International Journal of Sustainable Development, Vol. 10, No. 10, pp. 53-66, 2017

14 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2017

Bambang Prayogo

Trisakti University - Faculty of Economic and Business (FEB)

Sukrisno Agoes

Tarumanagara University - Faculty of Economic and Business

Date Written: October 30, 2017

Abstract

The Government of Indonesia through the Ministry of Finance shall regulate the audit services with the issuance of Decree of the Minister of Finance No. 423/KMK.06/2002 on Public Accounting Services, which was subsequently revised by KMK No. 359/KMK.06/2003 with the aim to realize a professional public accountant and independent public accounting firm. Regulatory reforms were carried out in the wake of the globalization crisis in 2008 in the implementation of Law No. 5 of 2011 and lastly, also issued Government Regulation No. 20 of 2015.

Based on the audit department's data (2017) found when the enactment of Law No. 5 of 2011, the number of public accounting firms that received warning sanctions increased and over time decreased. This indicates an improvement through the audit regulation. In addition, through the enactment of Government Regulation No. 20 of 2015, found the existence of a violating public accounting firm so that it is subject to freezing sanctions in June 2015 and sanction of revocation in December 2015.

The same impact also applies to public accountants where in the period of application of Regulation of the Minister of Finance No.17 of 2008 there is only one freezing sanction on Public Accountant. This is because there is no criminal sanction in the audit regulation. However, in the period of the implementation of Law No. 5 of 2011, there was an increase in the number of sanctions against public accountant, although still in an insignificant number. In the period of enactment of Government Regulation No. 20 of 2015, there is an increase in the number of sanctions against public accountant compared to the previous regulation. And after the 2017 OJK regulation strengthens Government Regulation No. 20 of 2015, the number of sanctions on public accountants increases significantly in the first semester of 2017. This indicates that the enactment of the latest audit regulation proved to improve the quality of audit through the early and broadly detection of audit service violations.

In agency theory, agency relationships can lead to a conflict of interest that is when the manager as an agent performs an opportunistic act of doing earnings management in order to achieve targets charged by the principal (Meisser et al, 2006). This can occur because of the information asymmetry between the principal and the agent in which the agent knows more information than the principal and vice versa. The conflicts of interest can be minimized by a mechanism capable of aligning the interests of shareholders as owners with management interests. This mechanism is known for corporate governance in running its business. It is expected that the corporate control mechanism is effective through the monitoring role by the board of commissioners and audit committee (Dechow et al, 1995). The role of corporate governance as an internal factor of the firm in limiting or reducing earnings management activities (Klein, 2002; Xie et al., 2003).

Beside that in the agency theory, an independent auditor is a third party capable of safeguarding the interests of principals and agents in managing corporate finances where independent auditors can perform monitoring functions of agency work using a means in the form of financial statements (Setiawan, 2006). An auditor tests that the figures for financial statements used in the contract have been calculated in accordance with applicable procedures, and the possibility of violations in the terms set out in the contract (Watts and Zimmerman, 1986). The audit of financial statements by the public accounting firm has a monitoring role in testing the credibility of accounting information generated by the agent so as to provide a fundamental role in ensuring reliable financial reporting with reduced agency costs (Jensen and Meckling, 1976;Imhoff, 2003).

This study was to examine the role of audit regulation on the effect of corporate governance and audit quality on earnings management. This study examined using structural equation modeling method with the approach of partial least squares (SEM-PLS). And also analyze differences test by using One Way ANOVA where is use to examine the differences audit regulation period on the effect of audit quality on earnings management such before and after implementation of Act No.5, 2011 and Government Regulation No. 20, 2015. The research sample is purposive with a total of 79 manufacture companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange in period 2008-2015 with 480 observation years.

The results showed a significant and negative relationship between independent commissioner and earnings management, while audit committee and earnings management shows no significant. Audit quality influences negatively and significantly on earnings management. Beside it, One Way ANOVA test shows that audit quality influences negatively and significantly on earning management especially in implementation of audit regulation during period 2008-2010 and period 2011-2014. Overall, research conclude that the changes of audit quality is significantly effect on earnings management mitigation in companies.

Keywords: Audit Regulation, Audit Quality, Corporate Governance, Earnings Management

Suggested Citation:

Prayogo, Bambang and Agoes, Sukrisno, Role of Audit Regulation on the Effect of Corporate Governance and Audit Quality on Earnings Management (October 30, 2017). OIDA International Journal of Sustainable Development, Vol. 10, No. 10, pp. 53-66, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3072717
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
J Carcello , T Neal
Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 75 , p. 453 - 67 Posted: 2000
Crossref
K Y Chen , K Lin , J Zhou
Audit Quality and Earnings Management for Taiwan IPO firms
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 20 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Chiang , L Huang , H Hsiao
Study of earnings management and audit quality
African Journal of Business Management , volume 5 , issue 7 , p. 2686 - 2699 Posted: 2011-04-04
W W Chin
Partial Least Square is to LISREL as principal components analysis is to common factor analysis
Technology Studies , volume 2 , p. 315 - 319 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
510
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,081
RANK
126,559
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies