Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Usefulness of Multi-Criteria Taxonomy in Corporate Bankruptcy Prediction - The Polish Experience

The 11th International Days of Statistics and Economics Conference Proceedings, Prague, September 14-16, 2017

9 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2017

Jacek Welc

Wroclaw University of Economics

Elzbieta Sobczak

Uniwersytet Ekonomiczny we Wrocławiu

Date Written: September 14, 2017

Abstract

One of the essential elements of company’s economic and financial evaluation is ratio analysis. It includes computation and interpretation of multiple bankruptcy risk ratios. When applying accounting ratios in a credit risk evaluation analysts typically either compute and interpret several individual ratios (a univariate approach) or apply some pre-estimated parametric multivariable econometric tools, such as the Altman model or discriminant function. The problem with the first approach is that it does not take into account the inter-relationships between the individual ratios. The latter approach, in turn, calls for statistical models, whose parameters may not be stable in time and in space. In this paper we empirically examine the usefulness of the alternative approach, that is simple taxonomic ranking, in corporate bankruptcy risk quantification (on the basis of data from the Polish stock market). We found that this simple non-parametric multivariate method outperforms all other tested approaches (including logit model) in discriminating between bankrupt and healthy firms.

Keywords: Credit Risk Analysis, Bankruptcy Prediction, Taxonomy, Ratio Analysis

JEL Classification: G11, C21

Suggested Citation:

Welc, Jacek and Sobczak, Elzbieta, Usefulness of Multi-Criteria Taxonomy in Corporate Bankruptcy Prediction - The Polish Experience (September 14, 2017). The 11th International Days of Statistics and Economics Conference Proceedings, Prague, September 14-16, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3073644
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis, and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
E I Altman , R G Haldeman , P Narayanan
ZETA Analysis: A New Model to Identify Bankruptcy Risk of Corporations
Journal of Banking and Finance , p. 29 - 54 Posted: 1977
Crossref
E I Altman , G Sabato
Modeling Credit Risk for SMEs: Evidence from the U
S. Market. Abacus , p. 716 - 723 Posted: 2007
Crossref
W H Beaver
Financial Ratios as Predictors of Failure
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 71 - 111 Posted: 1966
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,060
RANK
856,579
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies