Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of SEC Reviewers on Comment Letters

KAIST College of Business Working Paper Series No. 2017-021

58 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2017 Last revised: 28 Jan 2020

Matthew Baugh

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Kyonghee Kim

Michigan State University

Kwang Lee

Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 2020

Abstract

Prior research suggests that even for the same decision task there will be variation in decision outcomes across decision makers due to idiosyncrasies in their styles. This variation brings up a fundamental challenge in the realm of regulations where consistency is of great importance. This study examines whether the idiosyncrasy of individual employees of U.S. financial regulators contributes to inconsistent regulatory outcomes. Using a sample of SEC comment letters, we show that SEC reviewers’ idiosyncratic style plays a significant role in explaining the cross-sectional variation in filing review outcomes, even after holding firm and disclosure attributes constant. The reviewer style is persistent across firms and time. We also find that the likelihood of restatement during the review process and investor response to the release of comment letter information vary systemically with reviewer style. This finding suggests that SEC reviewers’ idiosyncratic style has implications for shareholders and the market, in addition to the costs imposed on registrant firms in resolving comment letter issues.

Keywords: SEC Reviewers, Reviewer Style, Comment Letters, Restatements

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Baugh, Matthew and Kim, Kyonghee and Lee, Kwang, The Effect of SEC Reviewers on Comment Letters (January 2020). KAIST College of Business Working Paper Series No. 2017-021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3074127 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3074127
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
Paul M. Healy , Krishna Palepu
Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature
JAE Rochester Conference April 2000 Pages: 60 Posted: 1 Feb 2001
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
2 Citations
Soenke Sievers , Christian Sofilkanitsch
<p>A Survey of Restatement Literature: Determinants of Misreporting</p>
68 Pages · Posted: 25 Aug 2018 · Last revised: 14 Sep 2025 · Downloads: 1,041
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Matthew Baugh , Roy Schmardebeck
Auditor Style and Common Disclosure Issues: Evidence from SEC Comment Letters
64 Pages · Posted: 7 May 2019 · Last revised: 19 Oct 2022 · Downloads: 653
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
375
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,590
RANK
86,364
2 Citations
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies