Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Poison Pills in the Shadow of the Law

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 595/2019

103 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2022 Last revised: 6 Feb 2024

Martijn Cremers

University of Notre Dame

Simone M. Sepe

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law; University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management; University of Arizona - James E. Rogers College of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); American College of Governance Counsel

Michał Zator

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Lubomir P. Litov

University of Oklahoma - Michael F. Price College of Business; University of Pennsylvania - Wharton Financial Institutions Center

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 2, 2024

Abstract

Poison pills are among the most powerful antitakeover provisions, but studying their economic impact is challenging because of the obvious endogeneity concerns. We address the problem by studying U.S. states’ staggered adoption of poison pill laws (PPLs), which strengthen the right to adopt a pill, i.e., the shadow pill, and increase the validity of visible pills. We document that PPLs make visible pill policy aligned with economic incentives, increasing pill adoption among firms with a high likelihood of takeover but decreasing it among firms with low takeover likelihood. We also document that PPLs positively impact firm value, especially for innovative firms with more intangible assets.

Keywords: Poison pill, antitakeover statutes, shadow pill, firm value

JEL Classification: G32, G34, K22, O32

Suggested Citation:

Cremers, K. J. Martijn and Sepe, Simone M. and Zator, Michał and Litov, Lubomir P., Poison Pills in the Shadow of the Law (February 2, 2024). European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 595/2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3074658 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3074658
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
V V Acharya , R P Baghai , K V Subramanian
Wrongful discharge laws and innovation
Review of Financial Studies , volume 27 , p. 301 - 346 Posted: 2014
B W Ambrose , W L Megginson
The role of asset structure, ownership structure, and takeover defenses in determining acquisition likelihood
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 27 , p. 575 - 590 Posted: 1992
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
J Atanassov
Do hostile takeovers stifle innovation? Evidence from antitakeover legislation and corporate patenting
Journal of Finance , volume 68 , p. 1097 - 1131 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
937
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,746
RANK
50,247
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies