Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Complementarity Between Tax Avoidance and Manager Diversion: Evidence from Tax Haven Firms

Contemporary Accounting Research, 2017, Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2017 Last revised: 28 Dec 2017

T. J. Atwood

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Christina Lewellen

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: November 21, 2017

Abstract

We investigate whether tax avoidance and manager diversion are complementary when the costs of diversion are low by comparing dividend payouts, performance, and overinvestments of tax haven firms versus other multinational firms based in countries with weak and strong investor protections. Desai and Dharmapala (2006, 2009a, 2009b) and Desai et al. (2007) set forth a theory of tax avoidance within an agency framework (the D&D theory) based on the assumption that tax avoidance and manager diversion are complementary when the corporate governance system is “ineffective” (i.e., the manager’s expected costs of diversion are low). Studies developing the D&D theory provide indirect evidence consistent with the model’s predictions but do not directly test this complementarity assumption. Recent studies of U.S. firms find no complementarity or find evidence inconsistent with this complementarity. Tax haven firms are corporate groups whose parent firms are incorporated in tax haven countries that are not the countries where the groups’ headquarters or primary operations are located (i.e., their “base” countries). We argue that tax haven incorporation potentially lowers the costs of diversion for managers of firms based in countries with weak investor protections. Using a sample from 28 base countries, we provide evidence that manager diversion and tax avoidance are complementary for tax haven firms based in countries with weak investor protections but not for tax haven firms based in countries with strong investor protections. Our results are consistent with the complementarity assumption underlying the D&D model and provide additional insights into the potential impact of the decentralization of the global firm.

Keywords: Tax Avoidance, Tax Havens, Rent Extraction, Managerial Diversion, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: M41, H20, H26

Suggested Citation:

Atwood, T. J. and Lewellen, Christina, The Complementarity Between Tax Avoidance and Manager Diversion: Evidence from Tax Haven Firms (November 21, 2017). Contemporary Accounting Research, 2017, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3075454 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3075454
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
H Akamah , W O.-K. Hope , Thomas
Tax havens and disclosure aggregation
Journal of International Business Studies , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2017
Crossref
E J Allen , S C Morse
Tax-haven incorporation for U.S.-headquartered firms: No exodus yet
National Tax Journal , volume 66 , issue 2 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Crossref
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
408
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,309
RANK
164,752
5 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies