Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Earning Management and Good Corporate Governance Mechanism to Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure at Manufacture Companies in Indonesian Stock Exchange

Jurnal Riset Manajemen & Bisnis, Vol. 10, No. 2, Des 2015, ISSN: 107-7343

Posted: 27 Nov 2017

Rowland Bismark Pasaribu

NAMOURA Research Institute; Gunadarma University

Date Written: Desember 15, 2015

Abstract

This study aims to investigate the relationship earnings management and mechanisms of good corporate governance (managerial ownership, institutional ownership, public ownership, the audit committee, board size, and proportion of independent board) on the disclosure of corporate social responsibility on companies listed in Indonesia Stock Exchange period 2009-2013. Analysis technique used is multiple linear regressions. From the empirical result, the study found that in partial managerial ownership, board size, and proportion of independent board significant influence, while variable earnings management, public ownership, and the audit committee did not significantly affect the disclosure of corporate social responsibility.

Keywords: good corporate governance Mechanism, corporate social responsibility disclosure, earnings management

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Pasaribu, Rowland Bismark, The Influence of Earning Management and Good Corporate Governance Mechanism to Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure at Manufacture Companies in Indonesian Stock Exchange (Desember 15, 2015). Jurnal Riset Manajemen & Bisnis, Vol. 10, No. 2, Des 2015, ISSN: 107-7343, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3075061
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,217
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies