Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Accounting Conservatism, Managerial Ownership, Dividend Policy, Size, Leverage, Price Earnings Ratio, Price to Book Value, and Earning Per Share to Earning Management: Empirical Evidence of Manufacturer Companies in Indonesian Stock Exchange

Jurnal Ekonomi dan Bisnis, Vol. 10, No. 2, Jul 2016, ISSN: 1978-3116

Posted: 28 Nov 2017

Rowland Bismark Pasaribu

NAMOURA Research Institute; Gunadarma University

Date Written: Juli 12, 2016

Abstract

This study aims to examine the relationship of accounting conservatism, managerial ownership, dividend policy, firm size, leverage, price earnings ratio, price to book value and earnings per share to earnings management. The analysis technique used is multiple linear regressions. The data used are secondary data obtained from Indonesia Stock Exchange and various web from the company’s website. The results of the study found that on managerial ownership, leverage and Price Earnings Ratio has significant effect while accounting conservatism, dividend policy, firm size, price to book value (PBV) and earnings per share (EPS) have no significant effect to earnings management.

Keywords: accounting conservatism, managerial ownership, dividend policy, firm size, leverage, earnings management

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G35

Suggested Citation:

Pasaribu, Rowland Bismark, The Influence of Accounting Conservatism, Managerial Ownership, Dividend Policy, Size, Leverage, Price Earnings Ratio, Price to Book Value, and Earning Per Share to Earning Management: Empirical Evidence of Manufacturer Companies in Indonesian Stock Exchange (Juli 12, 2016). Jurnal Ekonomi dan Bisnis, Vol. 10, No. 2, Jul 2016, ISSN: 1978-3116, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3076816
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,573
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies