Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interpretive Guidance and Financial Reporting Costs: Evidence from Audit Fees

46 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2017

Dain C. Donelson

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

David Folsom

Weber State University (WSU) - Goddard School of Business and Economics

John M. McInnis

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Richard Mergenthaler

Penn State University

Kyle Peterson

University of Oregon - Charles H. Lundquist School of Business

Date Written: November 22, 2017

Abstract

We examine the effect of interpretive accounting guidance on a direct and observable cost of financial reporting: audit fees. Many contend that U.S. GAAP has too much interpretive guidance, making it complex and difficult to assimilate. This effect would lead to higher audit effort and higher fees. However, specific guidance could both lower litigation risk and increase audit efficiency by reducing the need for auditors to continually deliberate complicated accounting issues across engagements. These effects would lead to lower audit fees. Overall, using both levels and changes regressions, we find that interpretive accounting guidance is associated with higher audit fees. However, this effect is smallest for firms facing the highest ex-ante litigation risk. Finally, we examine whether increased audit fees persist and find that the audit fee effect disappears by the third year after the interpretive guidance becomes effective. Overall, we find no evidence that interpretive guidance decreases audit costs.

Keywords: Interpretive Guidance, Financial Reporting Costs, Audit Fees

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Donelson, Dain C. and Folsom, David and McInnis, John M. and Mergenthaler, Richard Dean and Peterson, Kyle, Interpretive Guidance and Financial Reporting Costs: Evidence from Audit Fees (November 22, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3076195 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3076195
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
B Badertscher , B Jorgensen , S Katz , W Kinney
Public equity and audit pricing in the United States
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 303 - 339 Posted: 2014
Crossref
C S Diver
The Optimal Precision of Administrative Rules
The Yale Law Journal , volume 93 , p. 65 - 109 Posted: 1983
Crossref
D C Donelson , J Mcinnis , R D Mergenthaler
Rules-Based Accounting Standards and Litigation
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , p. 1247 - 1279 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Principles-based approach to standard setting
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,175
RANK
375,436
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies