Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Dividend Policy in Services Industry of China

Adnan Abbas, Muhammad Saad Ameer, "Determinants of Dividend Policy in Services Industry of China" International Journal of Business, Economics and Management Works, Vol. 4, Issue 11, PP. 20-23, November 2017.

4 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2017

Muhammad Saad Ameer

Nanjing University of Science and Technology - Department of Management Science and Engineering

Adnan Abbas

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 22, 2017

Abstract

The dividend policy analysis based upon the service industry in china. The data is based on the most recent years from 2014 to 2016. It includes forty-two organizations of communication, information, and transportation sector. dividend pay-out determines the total revenue by the organization (positively). It is presumed that the total sale plays a positive part in deciding dividend pay-out ratio of the organization as it increases earning per share, and strength of equity. The debt equity ratio is significant but due to the dividend pay-out of the organization will decrease.

Keywords: Dividend Pay-Out Policy, Firm Sale, Firm Debt, China Services Industry, Shareholder Equity, Firm Profitability

Suggested Citation:

Ameer, Muhammad Saad and Abbas, Adnan, Determinants of Dividend Policy in Services Industry of China (November 22, 2017). Adnan Abbas, Muhammad Saad Ameer, "Determinants of Dividend Policy in Services Industry of China" International Journal of Business, Economics and Management Works, Vol. 4, Issue 11, PP. 20-23, November 2017. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3076025
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
D E Allen , V S Rachim
Dividend policy and stock price volatility: Australian Evidence
Journal of Applied Economics , volume 6 , p. 175 - 188 Posted: 1996
Crossref
H N Al-Malawi
Determinants of corporate dividend policy in Jordan: an application of the To bit model
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 23 , p. 44 - 70 Posted: 2007
J Baskin
Dividend policy and the volatility of common stock
Journal of Portfolio Management , volume 15 , p. 19 - 25 Posted: 1989
Crossref
S Bhattacharya
Imperfect information & dividend policy and the 'bird in hand' fallacy, The Bell Posted: 1979
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,498
RANK
444,118
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies