Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Outside Opportunities, Managerial Risk Preferences, and CEO Compensation

The Accounting Review, forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2018-0614

55 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2017 Last revised: 15 Jun 2021

Wen Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Sumi Jung

Yonsei University

Xiaoxia Peng

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Ivy Zhang

University of California, Riverside

Date Written: March 23, 2021

Abstract

Exploiting the setting of staggered adoption of the Inevitable Disclosure Doctrine (IDD) in U.S. state courts, we examine how quasi-exogenous restrictions of outside employment opportunities affect CEO compensation structure. The IDD adoption constrains executives’ ability to work for competitors, which likely decreases CEOs’ tendency to take risks by increasing the cost of job loss and reducing the reward to risk taking. We expect the board to respond by increasing the sensitivity of CEO wealth to stock volatility (vega) to encourage risk taking. We find a significant increase in vega post-IDD adoption. The effect is stronger among CEOs with greater career concerns. The effect also increases with the ex-ante CEO mobility and the importance of trade secrets, suggesting that the board increases vega more when there is a greater reduction in CEO outside opportunities. Overall, we provide new evidence on how external labor market frictions affect the convexity of CEO compensation.

Keywords: External labor market, Inevitable disclosure doctrine, CEO compensation, Risk-taking incentives

JEL Classification: G32, M12, J60

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Wen and Jung, Sumi and Peng, Xiaoxia and Zhang, Ivy, Outside Opportunities, Managerial Risk Preferences, and CEO Compensation (March 23, 2021). The Accounting Review, forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2018-0614, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3076044
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
626
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,225
RANK
97,687
12 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies