Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Performance Implications of Using Qualitative Criteria in CEO Bonus Contracts

Advances in Management Accounting, Vol 31, pp. 55-89, 2019

51 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2017 Last revised: 27 Jul 2020

Nancy Chun Feng

Suffolk University

Ahmet C. Kurt

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: December 28, 2018

Abstract

Many argue that the design of compensation contracts for public company chief executive officers (CEOs) is often not guided by a goal of value maximization. Yet, there is limited direct empirical evidence on the negative consequences of the proposed inefficient contracting between shareholders and CEOs. Using data on CEO bonus contracts of the S&P 500 firms, we investigate potential firm performance implications of the use of qualitative criteria such as leadership and mentoring in those contracts. We maintain that unlike quantitative criteria, qualitative criteria are difficult to define and measure on an objective basis, possibly resulting in an inefficient and biased incentive structure. Twenty-five percent of the sample observations have CEO bonus contracts that include a qualitative criterion for bonus payment determination. Our results show that employee productivity, asset productivity, capital expenditures, and future abnormal stock returns are lower for firms that use a qualitative criterion in CEO bonus contracts than those that do not. Further, contrary to the argument in prior literature that earnings management decreases with the use of subjective performance indicators in incentive contracts, we find that income-increasing accruals are actually higher when the CEO bonus contract includes a qualitative criterion. We recommend that compensation committees set concrete, measurable performance goals for CEOs, providing CEOs with better guidance and helping improve their corporate decision making.

Keywords: Executive Compensation, Chief Executive Officers, Bonus Contracts, Performance Criteria, Firm Performance, Earnings Management

JEL Classification: G30, J33, M12, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Nancy Chun and Kurt, Ahmet C., Firm Performance Implications of Using Qualitative Criteria in CEO Bonus Contracts (December 28, 2018). Advances in Management Accounting, Vol 31, pp. 55-89, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3077142 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3077142
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
A R Abdel-Khalik , K M El-Sheshai
Information choice and utilization in an experiment on default prediction
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 18 , p. 325 - 342 Posted: 1980
Crossref
R B Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Understanding the relationship between founderCEOs and firm performance
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 16 , p. 136 - 150 Posted: 2009
Crossref
T L Albright , C M Burgess , A R Hibbets , M L Roberts
Four steps to simplify multimeasure performance evaluations using the balanced scorecard
Journal of Corporate Accounting and Finance , volume 21 , p. 63 - 68 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,978
RANK
422,747
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies