Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Internal Experience and Voluntary Disclosure Quality: Evidence from Management Forecasts

Journal of Business, Finance, and Accounting, forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2017 Last revised: 25 Nov 2018

Paul Brockman

Lehigh University - College of Business

John L. Campbell

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Hye Seung (Grace) Lee

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Jesus M. Salas

Lehigh University - Department of Finance and Law

Date Written: November 14, 2018

Abstract

Internally-promoted CEOs should have a deep understanding of their firm’s products, supply chain, operations, business climate, corporate culture, and how to navigate among employees to get the information they need. Thus, we argue that internally-promoted CEOs are likely to produce higher quality disclosure than outsider CEOs. Using a sample of U.S. firms from the S&P 1,500 index from 2001 to 2011, we hand-collect whether a CEO is hired from inside the firm and, if so, the number of years they worked at the firm before becoming CEO. We then examine whether managers with more internal experience issue higher quality disclosures and offer three main findings. First, CEOs with more internal experience are more likely to issue voluntary earnings forecasts than those managers with less internal experience as well as those managers hired from outside the firm. Second, CEOs with more internal experience issue more accurate earnings forecasts than those managers with less internal experience as well as those managers hired from outside the firm. Finally, investors react more strongly to forecasts issued by insider CEOs than to those issued by outsider CEOs. In additional analysis, we find no evidence that these results extend to mandatory reporting quality (i.e., accruals quality, restatements, or internal control weaknesses), perhaps because mandatory disclosure is subjected to heavy oversight by the board of directors, auditors, and regulators. Overall, our findings suggest that when managers have work experience with the firm prior to becoming the CEO, the firm’s voluntary disclosure is of higher quality.

Keywords: Voluntary Disclosure, CEO Turnover, CEO Inside Experience, Management Forecasts, Financial Reporting Quality

Suggested Citation:

Brockman, Paul and Campbell, John L. and Lee, Hye Seung (Grace) and Salas, Jesus M., CEO Internal Experience and Voluntary Disclosure Quality: Evidence from Management Forecasts (November 14, 2018). Journal of Business, Finance, and Accounting, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3077698 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3077698
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
4 Citations
Javad Oradi , Kaveh Asiaei , Zabihollah Rezaee
CEO Financial Background and Internal Control Weaknesses
Corporate Governance: An International Review, Vol. 28, Issue 2, pp. 119-140, 2020 · 22 Pages · Posted: 19 May 2020 · Downloads: 14
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Feng Cao , Jian Sun , Rongli Yuan
Board Directors with Foreign Experience and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from China
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Vol. 46, Issue 9-10, pp. 1144-1170, 2019 · 27 Pages · Posted: 27 May 2020 · Downloads: 10
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lamia Chourou , He-san Luo , Ligang Zhong
Does Religiosity Enhance the Quality of Management Earnings Forecasts?
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Vol. 47, Issue 7-8, pp. 910-948, 2020 · 39 Pages · Posted: 30 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 12
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Isaac Marfo Oduro , Mabutho Sibanda , Samuel Agyei
Professional Management, Board Efficacy and Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence from Stock Markets in Sub-Saharan Africa
26 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 29 Mar 2023 · Downloads: 60
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,166
RANK
251,747
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies