Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk-Taking, Opportunistic Earnings Management and Corporate Opacity: Evidence from China

Posted: 30 Nov 2017

Hua Feng

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Mohan Fonseka

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Gao-Liang Tian

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Date Written: November 27, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of corporate risk-taking on the opportunistic earnings management and corporate opacity. Using a large sample of Chinese stocks spanning the period 2007-2015, we find that corporate risk-taking is positively related to both accrual based - and real transaction-based earnings management. We also find a statistically significant and positive association between corporate risk-taking and corporate opacity. We further make several additional tests which find: First, we find that the high leverage and capital expenditure are the main forms of corporate risk-taking in above relationships. Second, we find that corporate risk-taking is positively related to all forms of real transaction-based earnings management. Finally, we document that the positive effect of corporate risk-taking on opportunistic earnings management and corporate opacity is more pronounced for firms who have over-confident managers. Our all findings remain robust to alternative sensitivity checks.

Keywords: Risk-taking; Earnings management; Corporate opacity

JEL Classification: M4, G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Hua and Fonseka, M. M. and Tian, Gao-Liang, Risk-Taking, Opportunistic Earnings Management and Corporate Opacity: Evidence from China (November 27, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3077910
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,301
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies