Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Threat of a PCAOB Inspection Mitigate U.S. Institutional Investors’ Home Bias?

73 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2017 Last revised: 29 Apr 2019

Yue He

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Bing Li

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Zhenbin Liu

Hong Kong Baptist University

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Date Written: April 2019

Abstract

We exploit the staggered introduction of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s (PCAOB) international inspection program to examine the role that exogenous shocks to the stringency of public audit oversight plays in shaping U.S. institutional investors’ home bias. Analyzing a sample of foreign firms listed in the U.S., we evaluate whether U.S. institutional investors hold larger equity stakes in these firms if their auditors are exposed to the threat of a PCAOB inspection. In a differences-in-differences framework, we find that U.S. listed foreign firms enjoy an increase in the number and percentage share ownership of U.S. institutional investors after their auditors become subject to PCAOB inspection access. Cross-sectional analysis implies that the benefit of the PCAOB inspection threat in mitigating U.S. institutional investors’ home bias is concentrated in foreign countries without a strict local audit oversight system. In another series of results, our evidence suggests that the presence of strong institutions governing investor protection and disclosure standards are necessary conditions for U.S. institutional investors to value PCAOB inspection access.

Keywords: PCAOB Inspection; Audit Quality; U.S. Institutional Investors; Home Bias

JEL Classification: G18; L51; M4

Suggested Citation:

He, Yue and Li, Bing and Liu, Zhenbin and Pittman, Jeffrey A., Does the Threat of a PCAOB Inspection Mitigate U.S. Institutional Investors’ Home Bias? (April 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3079447 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3079447
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
R Aggarwal , L Klapper , P D Wysocki
Portfolio preferences of foreign institutional investors
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 29 , issue 12 , p. 2919 - 2946 Posted: 2005
Crossref
D Amiram , W H Beaver , W R Landsman , J Zhao
The effects of credit default swap trading on information asymmetry in syndicated loans
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 126 , issue 2 , p. 364 - 382 Posted: 2017
Crossref
J Ammer , S B Holland , D C Smith , F E Warnock
US international equity investment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 50 , issue 5 , p. 1109 - 1139 Posted: 2012
Crossref
S C Andrade , V Chhaochharia
Information immobility and foreign portfolio investment
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 6 , p. 2429 - 2463 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
David Oesch , Felix Urban
International PCAOB Inspections and Earnings Management Transmission within Multinational Business Groups
55 Pages · Posted: 9 Nov 2018 · Last revised: 7 Dec 2019 · Downloads: 222
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
389
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,904
RANK
174,026
1 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies