Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Opaque Liabilities, Learning, and the Cost of Equity Capital for Insurers

Journal of Risk and Insurance, Forthcoming

69 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2017 Last revised: 29 Jun 2022

Chia-Chun Chiang

University of Texas at El Paso - College of Business Administration

Hugh Hoikwang Kim

University of South Carolina, Darla Moore School of Business

Greg Niehaus

University of South Carolina - Darla Moore School of Business

Date Written: February 1, 2019

Abstract

Analyzing major U.S. property-liability insurers, we find that their cost of equity capital is negatively associated with their underwriting performance, but not with their investment performance. We provide cross-sectional evidence that the difference is attributable, at least in part, to investor learning about opaque insurer liabilities. We also find that capital market and product market imperfections are important determinants of insurers’ cost of equity capital. Overall, our evidence contributes to the important literature examining insurers’ cost of equity capital, and it suggests that opaque liabilities are a distinguishing feature of insurers in determining their cost of equity capital.

Keywords: insurer underwriting performance, cost of equity capital, asset pricing, opacity

JEL Classification: G22, G12, G31

Suggested Citation:

Chiang, Chia-Chun and Kim, Hugh Hoikwang and Niehaus, Greg, Opaque Liabilities, Learning, and the Cost of Equity Capital for Insurers (February 1, 2019). Journal of Risk and Insurance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3079920 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3079920
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
S Adamson , D Eckles , K S Haggard
Insurer Opacity and Ownership Structure , volume 37 , p. 93 - 134 Posted: 2014
A M Best
Best's Credit Rating Methodology Posted: 2018-12
S Amnar , M Eling , A Milidonis
The Cross-Section of Expected Stock Returns in the Property/Liability Insurance Industry
Journal of Econometrics , volume 68 , p. 29 - 51 Posted: 1995
D F Babbel , C Merrill
Real and Illusory Value Creation by Insurance Companies
Journal of Risk and Insurance , volume 72 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,726
RANK
388,737
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies