Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Core Earnings Management: How Do Audit Firms Interact with Classification Shifting and Accruals Management?

50 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2017 Last revised: 5 Oct 2020

Aasmund Eilifsen

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Kjell Henry Knivsflå

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Date Written: September 20, 2020

Abstract

This study examines the interaction of audit firm characteristics with two core earnings management tools: classification shifting (CS) and core accruals management (CACM). CS occurs when management intentionally misclassifies recurring operational expenses as special items to inflate perceptions of core earnings. A Norwegian sample of companies, with forthcoming equity issues and acquisitions, reveals that CS substitutes for CACM for clients of Big 4 and industry-specialized audit firms. By contrast, CS complements CACM for clients of non-Big 4 and non-specialized audit firms. The level of auditor-provided non-audit services during a forthcoming equity issue, a measure of economic bond potential, also interacts with CS and CACM, though this interaction is different for clients of Big 4 and non-Big 4 audit firms. The overall results suggest that auditor incentives may support tolerating CS, which raises a question about the effectiveness of current accounting and auditing standards.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Classification Shifting, Accrual Management, Audit Quality, Audit Firm Size, Industry-Specialization, Non-Audit Services, Equity Issues and Acquisitions

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Eilifsen, Aasmund and Knivsflå, Kjell Henry, Core Earnings Management: How Do Audit Firms Interact with Classification Shifting and Accruals Management? (September 20, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3080778 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3080778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
J L Abernathy , B Beyer , E T Rapley
Earnings Management Constraints and Classification Shifting
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 41 , issue 5 , p. 600 - 626 Posted: 2014
Crossref
E Alfonso , C S A Cheng , S Pan
Income Classification Shifting and Mispricing of Core Earnings
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2015
Crossref
C Armstrong , G Foster , D Taylor
Abnormal Accruals in Newly Public Companies: Opportunistic Misreporting or Economic Activity?
Management Science , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 1316 - 1338 Posted: 2016
Crossref
B Arruñada
The Economics of Audit Quality: Private Incentives and the Regulation of Audit and Nonaudit Services Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,213
RANK
262,392
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies