Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Materiality in Sustainability Reporting: Multiple Standards and Looking for Common Principles and Measurement. The Case of the Seven Biggest Groups in Spain

EAMR, VOLUME 4, ISSUE 1, ARTICLE 6, 108-147,

40 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2017 Last revised: 31 Jul 2018

Jordi Morrós

University of Barcelona

Date Written: December 1, 2017

Abstract

This article is an approach to new definitions of materiality as applied to corporate performance and disclosure practices. Over time, the materiality lens will have implications for multiple operating areas. They will range from; risk and compliance to strategy setting, corporate policy and governance, management practices including stakeholder engagement, and even human resource management. In the second part there is a presentation of the definitions, scope and perspectives of materiality according to six relevant standard-setters in the field of sustainability reporting. Finally there is the presentation of how materiality is reported according to the six biggest groups of quoted companies in Spain.

Keywords: Materiality reporting, Sustainability reporting

JEL Classification: M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Morrós, Jordi, Materiality in Sustainability Reporting: Multiple Standards and Looking for Common Principles and Measurement. The Case of the Seven Biggest Groups in Spain (December 1, 2017). EAMR, VOLUME 4, ISSUE 1, ARTICLE 6, 108-147,, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3080973
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
D Allison-Hope , G Morgan
Navigating the Materiality Muddle Posted: 2013-01
S B Banerjee
Corporate social responsibility: The good, the bad and the ugly
Critical Sociology , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 79 Posted: 2008
Crossref
L A Bernstein
The concept of materiality
The Accounting Review , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 86 - 95 Posted: 1967
M Blowfield , A Murray
Corporate responsibility: A critical introduction Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,153
RANK
427,290
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies