Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Industry Tournament Incentives and the Product Market Benefits of Corporate Liquidity

Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA), Forthcoming

91 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2017

Jian Huang

Towson University - College of Business and Economics

Bharat A. Jain

Towson University

Omesh Kini

Georgia State University

Date Written: November 30, 2017

Abstract

We evaluate the link between CEO industry tournament incentives (ITI) and the product market benefits of corporate liquidity. We find that ITI increase the level and marginal value of cash holdings. Furthermore, ITI strengthen the relation between excess cash and market share gains especially for firms that face significant competitive threats. Additionally, for firms with excess cash, higher ITI lead to increased R&D expenses, capital expenditures, and spending on focused acquisitions as well as reduced payouts. Overall, our findings suggest that ITI increase the value of cash by incentivizing CEOs to deploy cash strategically to capture its product market benefits.

Keywords: Industry tournament incentives, Marginal value of cash, Level of cash, Strategic investments, Market share, Product markets

JEL Classification: G31, G32, G34, J31, J33, L25, D21

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Jian and Jain, Bharat A. and Kini, Omesh, Industry Tournament Incentives and the Product Market Benefits of Corporate Liquidity (November 30, 2017). Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3080115
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
268
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,146
RANK
260,398
16 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies