Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence on the Economic Consequences of Marriage Equality and LGBT Human Rights

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3080726

36 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2017

Jessie Y. Zhu

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Wally Smieliauskas

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 30, 2017

Abstract

The recent wave of same-sex marriage legalization marks the most significant human rights progress in decades. Nevertheless, the valuation effects on corporate America are unclear. While the arguments supporting marriage equality are largely in the domain of law and sociology, many prominent business leaders are actively engaged in campaigns advocating marriage equality. This suggests that the LGBT civil rights movement of our generation might have valuation implications for corporate America beyond human rights equality. Our paper complements prior research focusing on the economic consequences of firm-level LGBT human rights policies. This paper investigates the market perception of state-level same-sex marriage legalization by examining the short-window market reactions to firms headquartered in a state. We find weak positive market reactions to firms headquartered in states that legally recognize marriage equality. Further, we find that the market views companies more favorably in: (1) first-mover states before the Supreme Court ruling of United States v. Windsor, (2) states that have more established anti-discrimination laws for the LGBT community, and (3) companies that have LGBT-friendly policies in place.

Suggested Citation:

Zhu, Jessie Y. and Smieliauskas, Wally, Evidence on the Economic Consequences of Marriage Equality and LGBT Human Rights (November 30, 2017). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3080726, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3080726 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3080726
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of financial markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M V L Badgett , L E Durso , Kastanis , C Mallory , A Kastanis
The business impact of LGBT-supportive workplace policies , p. 1 - 37 Posted: 2013
M V Badgett , S Nezhad , K Waaldijk , Y Van Der Meulen Rodgers
The relationship between LGBT inclusion and economic development: An analysis of emerging economies Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,142
RANK
271,899
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies