Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Sixth Merger Wave and Wealth Effects of M&A Announcements: An Analysis of Large European Bidding Companies

European Accounting and Management Review, Volume 4, Issue 1, Article 2, November 2017

30 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2017

Xavier Auguets

Ramon Llull University - IQS School of Management

Monica Martinez-Blasco

IQS School of Management-Universitat Ramon Llull

Josep Garcia-Blandon

IQS School of Management (Universitat Ramon Llull)

Date Written: December 1, 2017

Abstract

This study aims to investigate short-term market reaction, including stock returns, volatility, and trading volumes of bidder firms, around the announcement dates of relevant merger and acquisition (M&A) transactions in the Eurozone during the sixth takeover wave. We emphasize the observed change in the behavior in the reaction of investors while acquiring firms in the transactions before the global financial crisis.

We use the classical Brown and Warner (1985) event studies method, and Corrado’s (1989) non-parametric test of ranks to detect abnormal behavior during the days being examined. The results allow us to make inferences about the relevance of the information released during the transaction announcement period. We add to the classical study of returns the use of a more powerful framework that investigates not only the abnormal returns but also their volatility and the abnormal changes in trading volumes around the announcement dates.

Our results indicate that M&A announcements convey relevant information to investors. Furthermore, we show that investors seem to adjust their investment portfolio to this new information. For the constituents of the Eurostoxx 50, there is no change in returns, while Xavier Auguets-Pratsobrerroca, Monica Martinez-Blasco and Josep García-Blandón 20 the short-term reaction is positive and highly significant in terms of volatility of returns and trading volume. Our framework, which includes not only returns but also volatility and volume, is particularly useful when M&A news are not probably interpreted equally by all the investors, and therefore we cannot observe a direct response directly in the returns.

This finding contrasts with previous similar studies in the nineties in Europe that did not use the framework of returns, volatilities and volumes by looking only to the returns aspect. In addition, the most compelling results were, on one side, that we found more significant reaction in the sub segment of large transactions, and null reaction on average in the sub segment of smaller transactions, and, on the other side, that we found relevant reaction in the period before crisis and null on average for the period after the crisis.

To our best knowledge, this is the first study to analyse the market reaction to big M&A announcements by European companies during the sixth wave. We also contribute to the existing literature by being the first study to examine the European M&A market using three indicators of market reaction.

Keywords: Mergers and acquisitions, transaction announcement date, event study, firm size, Eurozone, Eurostoxx 50

JEL Classification: G11, G14

Suggested Citation:

Auguets, Xavier and Martinez-Blasco, Monica and Garcia-Blandon, Josep, The Sixth Merger Wave and Wealth Effects of M&A Announcements: An Analysis of Large European Bidding Companies (December 1, 2017). European Accounting and Management Review, Volume 4, Issue 1, Article 2, November 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3080933
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
J Aharony , I Swary
Quarterly Dividend and Earnings Announcements and Stockholders' Returns: An Empirical Analysis
The Journal of Finance , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 1980
Crossref
G Alexandridis , C F Mavrovitis , N G Travlos
How have M&As changed? Evidence from the Sixth merger wave
The European Journal of Finance , volume 18 , issue 8 , p. 663 - 688 Posted: 2012
Crossref
P Asquith , D W Mullins
The Impact of Initiating Dividend Payments on Shareholders' Wealth
The Journal of Business , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 77 - 96 Posted: 1983
Crossref
L Bamber
The Information Content of Annual Earnings Releases: A Trading Volume Approach
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 40 - 56 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
298
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,928
RANK
233,304
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies