Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Mechanisms and Accounting Conservatism: Evidence from Egypt

Nasr, Mahmoud and Ntim, Collins G., Corporate Governance Mechanisms and Accounting Conservatism: Evidence from Egypt. Forthcoming in Corporate Governance, (December 1, 2017).

32 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2017 Last revised: 5 Jan 2018

Mahmoud Nasr

Alexandria University - Faculty of Commerce

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Date Written: December 1, 2017

Abstract

Purpose: This paper investigates the effect of corporate governance (CG) mechanisms (board size, board independence, separation of chairman and CEO roles, and external auditor type) on accounting conservatism in Egypt.

Design/methodology/approach: Archival data relating to CG and accounting conservatism are collected and analysed using multivariate regression techniques.

Findings: The findings indicate that board independence is positively associated with accounting conservatism. By contrast, board size and auditor type are negatively associated with accounting conservatism, while separating the chairperson and CEO roles has no significant relationship with accounting conservatism.

Originality/value: To the best of our knowledge, this is one of the first empirical attempts at providing evidence on the relationship between corporate governance and accounting conservatism in Egypt.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Accounting Conservatism, Egypt

JEL Classification: G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Nasr, Mahmoud and Ntim, Collins G., Corporate Governance Mechanisms and Accounting Conservatism: Evidence from Egypt (December 1, 2017). Nasr, Mahmoud and Ntim, Collins G., Corporate Governance Mechanisms and Accounting Conservatism: Evidence from Egypt. Forthcoming in Corporate Governance, (December 1, 2017). , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3081526
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
M Abdulrahman , H Abdou , C G Ntim , A A Elamer
Corporate boards, ownership structures and corporate disclosures: Evidence from a developing country
Journal of Applied Accounting Research Posted: 2017
R V Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of good governance
Corporate governance: an international review , volume 17 , p. 376 - 387 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 43 , issue 2 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
Crossref
K Ahmed , D Henry
Accounting conservatism and voluntary corporate governance mechanisms by Australian firms
Accounting & Finance , volume 52 , issue 3 , p. 631 - 662 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Bassam Farah , Rida Elias , Ruth V. Aguilera , Elie Abi Saad
Corporate Governance in the Middle East and North Africa: A Systematic Review of Current Trends and Opportunities for Future Research
Corporate Governance: An International Review · 105 Pages · Posted: 3 Aug 2021 · Last revised: 1 Sep 2021 · Downloads: 664
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sattar Khan
Earnings Manipulation in the Family Business Groups of Pakistan: the Role of Corporate Governance and the Same Network Auditor
385 Pages · Posted: 16 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 91
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
323
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,015
RANK
213,801
2 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies