Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Firm Innovation - Are Conventional Corporate Governance Standards a Hindrance?

Posted: 7 Dec 2017

Iris H-Y Chiu

University College London - Faculty of Laws; ECGI

Roger Barker

Institute of Directors

Date Written: December 1, 2017

Abstract

A company’s pro-innovation needs are often met by the exploitation of its resources, widely defined. The resource-based theory of the firm provides immense empirical insights into how a firm’s corporate governance factors can contribute to promoting innovation. These implications may however conflict with the prevailing standards of corporate governance imposed on many securities markets for listed companies, which have developed based on theoretical models supporting a shareholder-centred and agency-based theory of the firm. Although prevailing corporate governance standards can to an extent support firm innovation, tensions are created in some circumstances where companies pit their corporate governance compliance against resource-based needs that promote innovation. Such tensions have arisen in controversies surrounding listed companies that issue dual class stock that protect founder-members’ innovative visions for the company, or in companies with influential controlling shareholders, or where there may be a need to cater for the position of important stakeholders vis a vis a company. We argue that what is at the heart of many of these controversies is a contest between a resource-based perspective of the firm that seeks to maximise innovation and enterprise opportunities as a collective endeavour, and the agency-based perspective pf the firm that seeks to mitigate the power of influential constituents such as directors or controlling shareholders in order to protect minority investors.

In the present context of steady internationalisation and convergence in corporate governance standards in global securities markets towards a shareholder-centred agency-based model, we argue that there is a need to provide some room for accommodating the resource-based needs for companies in relation to promoting innovation. These needs may require deviation from prevailing corporate governance standards, and we propose a structured, coherent and formalised regime for such exceptions to occur in a way that would be subject to adequate investor scrutiny and market governance. This incremental approach is likely to be more acceptable and constructive in today’s securities markets and is able to advance the importance of the resource-based theory of the firm that promotes long-term success of the corporate sector.

Suggested Citation:

Chiu, Iris H-Y and Barker, Roger, Corporate Governance and Firm Innovation - Are Conventional Corporate Governance Standards a Hindrance? (December 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3081422
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,638
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies