Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Disclosure and Debt Covenant Violation

Journal of Management Accounting Research (2022), 2023-159

56 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2017 Last revised: 10 Jan 2022

Thomas Bourveau

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Derrald Stice

The University of Hong Kong - School of Business; HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Rencheng Wang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 19, 2021

Abstract

This study examines how managers change their forecasting behavior as a debt covenant violation (DCV) approaches. Consistent with a change, we find that management forecasts are more optimistic in the quarter before a DCV, and this result is stronger when firms face a higher risk of shifting control rights to lenders in the event of a DCV. Furthermore, we find that managers combine their forecast optimism with actions that are favorable to shareholders but would likely be curtailed by lenders after the DCV. Specifically, we find that managers who are more optimistic in their forecasts also increase R\&D, take on more risk, and increase dividend payouts before violations. Lastly, we find managers who are more optimistic in their forecasts are less likely to be replaced after a DCV. Overall, our results are consistent with managers changing their disclosure behavior in an attempt reduce lenders' awareness of an impending DCV, and thus, buy themselves time to take actions favorable to equity investors. Furthermore, our results suggest that the actions taken by managers, though likely opposed by debtholders ex ante, may improve, on average, firms' prospects, which in turn increases managers' job security following a DCV. Our results are consistent with managers working in the interest of equity holders to minimize the costs associated with an impending DCV.

Keywords: Debt Covenant Violation, Strategic Disclosure, Risk-Shifting

Suggested Citation:

Bourveau, Thomas and Stice, Derrald and Wang, Rencheng, Strategic Disclosure and Debt Covenant Violation (December 19, 2021). Journal of Management Accounting Research (2022), 2023-159, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3082058 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3082058
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
D Aboody , R Kaznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
V Atanasov , V Ivanov , K Litvak
Does reputation limit opportunistic behavior in the VC industry? Evidence from litigation against VCs
Journal of Finance , volume 67 , p. 2215 - 2246 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
617
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,477
RANK
99,748
2 Citations
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies