Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Appraisal Rights and Economic Growth

18 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2017

Richard A. Booth

Villanova University Charles Widger School of Law; ECGI

Date Written: December 5, 2017

Abstract

In disputes relating to valuation, the courts prefer the discounted cash flow (DCF) method and the capital asset pricing model (CAPM). The usual approach is to calculate value year-by-year for the coming five years (the projection period) and to use projected average cash flow to calculate value for the period thereafter (the terminal period). Since cash flow differs from GAAP earnings by netting out funds reinvested in the firm (plowback), future returns can be expected to grow. Thus, one must adjust for expected growth during the terminal period. The standard practice is to reduce the discount rate by the projected inflation rate plus the GDP growth rate, since a firm must keep up with inflation (lest it disappear over time) and since economic growth comes from returns generated by business. But if plowback generates return at the same rate ordinarily required of the firm, growth in value will equal plowback. Thus, it is simpler to use projected GAAP earnings as the measure of return. To use cash flow together with an adjusted discount rate is akin to making Maraschino cherries – which are first soaked in lye to remove color and flavor and then soaked in food coloring and sugar to put it back.

The question is whether long-term growth in firm value is limited to growth from plowback. There is good reason to think so since opportunities to generate above normal returns (economic rents) are likely to dissipate quickly because of competition. Still, it is possible that firms do grow by more than can be explained by plowback. But data are to the contrary. Since 1930, S&P 500 growth can be fully explained by plowback (GAAP earnings less dividends) together with reinvestment by investors. While plowback has been just enough to match inflation, remaining growth in stock prices is slightly less than would be expected by dividend reinvestment (consistent with diversion of some portion to consumption). The data since 2000 is somewhat different in that plowback has been less than inflation, but stock prices have nonetheless increased consistent with reinvestment. The bottom line is that real stock prices seem to grow slightly more than the real growth rate but a bit less than plowback plus the likely reinvestment rate. It follows that as there is no reason for stockholders to expect any more growth and no need for courts to struggle with estimating growth rates. By using projected GAAP earnings as the measure of average long-term return, the courts can use an unadjusted discount rate to calculate terminal value.

Keywords: appraisal, growth, discounted cash flow (DCF), capital asset pricing model (CAPM), projection period, terminal period, GAAP earnings, discount rate, inflation rate, GDP, plowback, cost of capital, Maraschino, economic rents, competition, S&P 500, dividend, distribution, repurchase, reinvestment

JEL Classification: E22, E44, G32, G34, K22, K41

Suggested Citation:

Booth, Richard A., Appraisal Rights and Economic Growth (December 5, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3082862 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3082862
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,666
RANK
527,931
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies