Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lessons from Single-Company Event Studies: The Importance of Controlling for Company-Specific Events

34 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2017

Scott Hakala

ValueScope, Inc.

Date Written: December 4, 2017

Abstract

Single-company event studies are commonly employed in applied practice, such as in analyzing market efficiency, reliance, and damages in securities litigation. However, the presence of significant company-specific events among the observations used to estimate the market model results in significantly biased, overstated standard errors (a well-known omitted variables problem) and less reliable coefficient estimates in such studies. This is a frequently over-looked or neglected issue that renders the statistical inferences in single-company event studies employing more traditional event study techniques biased and often unreliable. This paper demonstrates through simulation and actual examples that, even allowing for errors in implementation, intervention analysis (identifying and controlling for all identified company-specific events) substantially improves the reliability of the coefficient estimates and reduces the biases (resulting in substantially more correct statistical inferences, greater power) in single-company event study analyses.

Keywords: intervention analysis, event study, securities litigation

JEL Classification: C10, C19, C49, C52

Suggested Citation:

Hakala, Scott, Lessons from Single-Company Event Studies: The Importance of Controlling for Company-Specific Events (December 4, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3083495 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3083495
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Nihat Aktas , Eric De Bodt , Jean-Gabriel Cousin
Event studies with a contaminated estimation period
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 129 - 145 Posted: 2007-02
Crossref
Carol Alexander
Market models: A guide to financial data analysis Posted: 2001
G E P Box , G C Tiao
Intervention analysis with applications to economic and environmental problems
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 70 , issue 349 , p. 70 - 79 Posted: 1975-03
Crossref
John E Burnett , Carolyn Carroll , Paul Thistle
The detection of nonstationarity in the market model
Quarterly Journal of Business and Economics , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 36 - 50 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
232
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,162
RANK
301,058
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies