Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Losses as a Heuristic for Managerial Failure: Evidence from CEO Turnovers

Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA), Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2017

Al (Aloke) Ghosh

UNC Charlotte

Jun Wang

City University of New York, Baruch College - Zicklin School of Business - Department of Economics and Finance

Date Written: November 9, 2017

Abstract

We study the effects of accounting losses on CEO turnover. If accounting losses provide incremental information about managerial ability, boards can utilize the information in losses to assess CEO’s stewardship of assets, which is why losses may serve as a heuristic for managerial failure. We find a positive relation between losses and subsequent CEO turnover after controlling for other accounting and stock performance measures. We also find that losses are associated with an increase in board activity and that losses predict poor operating performance and future financial problems. Our results explain why CEOs manage earnings to avoid losses.

Keywords: Accounting losses; CEO turnover

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Ghosh, Al (Aloke) and Wang, Jun, Accounting Losses as a Heuristic for Managerial Failure: Evidence from CEO Turnovers (November 9, 2017). Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3083059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A Theory of Friendly Boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 237 Posted: 2007
Crossref
N Barberis , M Huang
Mental Accounting, Loss Aversion, and Individual Stock Returns
Journal of Finance , volume 56 , p. 1247 - 1292 Posted: 2001
Crossref
W H.; M F Beaver , K K Nelson
Management of the Loss Reserve Accrual and the Distribution of Earnings in the Property-casualty Insurance Industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 35 , p. 347 - 376 Posted: 2003
Crossref
P G Berger , E Ofek
Bustup Takeovers of Value-destroying Diversified Firms
Journal of Finance , volume 51 , p. 1175 - 200 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
248
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,900
RANK
281,769
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies