Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enforcement of Non-Compete Agreements, Outside Employment Opportunities, and Insider Trading

Contemporary Accounting Research 40 (2): 759-1513.

Posted: 16 Dec 2017 Last revised: 31 May 2023

Bo Gao

University of Texas at El Paso

Feng Guo

Iowa State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Ling Lei Lisic

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: 2023

Abstract

Enforcement of non-compete agreements could affect executives’and directors’incentives to profitfrom their information advantage. This is because excessive trading profits could result in job ter-mination, which would trigger the restrictions imposed by the non-compete agreements. Wefindthat executives’and directors’insider trading profits from sales are lower for companiesheadquartered in states with greater enforcement of non-compete agreements. The path analysessuggest that high enforcement of non-compete agreements disincentivizes managers to profit fromtheir information advantage to avoid the possibility of job termination and the cost of job termina-tions. We alsofind that insiders in companies headquartered in states with greater enforcement ofnon-compete agreements are less likely to exploit their information advantage by timing their salesbefore unfavorable corporate earnings announcements. The results suggest that enforcement ofnon-compete agreements reduces executives’and directors’incentives by imposing costs on futureoutside employment opportunities.

Keywords: non-compete, labor mobility, insider trading, career concern, job termination

JEL Classification: M55, J62, G14

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Bo and Guo, Feng and Lisic, Ling Lei and Omer, Thomas C., Enforcement of Non-Compete Agreements, Outside Employment Opportunities, and Insider Trading ( 2023). Contemporary Accounting Research 40 (2): 759-1513., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3083133 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3083133
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,973
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies