Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Qualitative Analysis of Auditor Independence in Dominica: The Views of Auditors and Corporate Accountants

Irish, L. & Alleyne, P. (20 09 ). A Qualitative Analysis of Auditor Independence in Dominica: The Views of Auditors and Corporate Accountants. Working Paper. Faculty of Social Sciences, University of the West Indies, Cave Hill Campus, Barbados, West Indies. August 14, pp.1-40.

40 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2017

Liane Irish-Wade

University of the West Indies (Saint Augustine) - Department of Management Studies

Philmore Alleyne

The University of the West Indies

Date Written: August 14, 2009

Abstract

This study seeks to investigate the perceptions of auditor independence in Dominica focusing primarily on the views of the auditors and corporate accountants. A qualitative study was employed using 25 auditors and corporate accountants. Interviews were conducted using a semi-structured interview schedule adapted from the Sucher and MacLullich (2004) study in Czech Republic. The study concluded that auditors in Dominica are perceived to be highly independent. It was found that the corporate accountants were generally unaware of the accounting/auditing regulatory framework in Dominica. The small business economy/unsophisticated nature of businesses, long audit tenure, the absence of a regulatory body, the closeness of society and political influence were all perceived to impair auditor independence in Dominica. Contrary, auditor independence was perceived to be enhanced by the auditors’ personal ethical values, the recently established regulatory body and the moderate competitive market in Dominica. The findings attempted to fill the gap in literature on auditor independence in small developing countries. The findings revealed that there is no regulatory body for auditors in Dominica. It was also found that the competitiveness of the audit market and the small size of the society could threaten auditor independence. However, the provision of non-audit services was not perceived to threaten auditor independence. It was also perceived that the auditors in Dominica are guided by the society’s high ethical values, which are brought about by their cultural and religious beliefs. This implies that cultural and religious pressures play a significant role in shaping the perceptions of auditor independence in Dominica.

Keywords: Dominica, Auditor independence, Ethical conduct, Cultural factors, Regulatory framework

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Irish-Wade, Liane and Alleyne, Philmore, A Qualitative Analysis of Auditor Independence in Dominica: The Views of Auditors and Corporate Accountants (August 14, 2009). Irish, L. & Alleyne, P. (20 09 ). A Qualitative Analysis of Auditor Independence in Dominica: The Views of Auditors and Corporate Accountants. Working Paper. Faculty of Social Sciences, University of the West Indies, Cave Hill Campus, Barbados, West Indies. August 14, pp.1-40., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3084033 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3084033
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
Accounting Practice Board
The Audit Agenda. London: Auditing Practices Board Posted: 1994
S P Agrawal
Auditor's Independence: A Behavioural Perspective Posted: 1975
A S Ahmed , S Duellman , Abdel-Meguid A M
Auditor independence, corporate governance and abnormal accruals Posted: 2006
M Akers , D Giacomino , J Gissel
Earnings Management and its implications
The CPA Journal August , volume 77 , issue 8 , p. 64 - 68 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,208
RANK
702,914
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies