Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Sustainability Performance Over the Firm Life Cycle: Levels, Determinants, and the Impact on Accounting Performance

51 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2017

Jan Diebecker

University of Münster - Accounting Center

Christian Rose

University of Münster - Accounting Center Münster

Friedrich Sommer

University of Bayreuth

Date Written: December 8, 2017

Abstract

In this paper, we empirically investigate the levels and the determinants of corporate sustainability performance (CSP) in different stages of the firm life cycle, as well as the impact of CSP on accounting-based corporate financial performance (CFP). Based on an international sample of 26,902 firm-year observations for the period 2002 to 2014, we use Dickinson’s (2011) firm life cycle measure based on cash flow patterns, Thomson Reuters ESG Research Data (formerly known as ASSET4) as CSP proxy, and return on assets to proxy accounting performance. Drawing on stakeholder theory and the resource based view, we hypothesize and find that CSP differs significantly across the life cycle stages and is lower before and after the mature stage. Free funds available increase CSP during the growth, mature and the shake-out stages. This finding can be attributed to strategic differentiation efforts and also hints towards opportunistic management behavior, i.e., managers might pursue sustainability measures as discretionary investments to keep resources within their spheres of influence. Shareholder concentration reduces CSP in the introduction, growth, mature and shake-out stages. Combined with the results regarding free funds, this finding could be attributed to the limitation of discretionary spending. We find a significantly positive effect of CSP on CFP in the growth, mature and shake-out stages, giving impetus to the CSP business case.

Keywords: corporate sustainability performance, corporate social responsibility, firm life cycle, financial performance, accounting performance

JEL Classification: M41, G30, Q01

Suggested Citation:

Diebecker, Jan and Rose, Christian and Sommer, Friedrich, Corporate Sustainability Performance Over the Firm Life Cycle: Levels, Determinants, and the Impact on Accounting Performance (December 8, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3084601 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3084601
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
794
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,256
RANK
71,864
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies