Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Organizational Climate of Accounting Firms

48 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2017

Ahmed Riahi-Belkaoui

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 8, 2017

Abstract

Research in human resource considerations in accounting firms is necessary to identify the factors that may create the ideal atmosphere for members of accounting firms to function effectively and efficiently.

The purpose of this manuscript is cover this type of research as it describes the potential problems facing the accounting profession.

Keywords: job satisfaction, performance evaluation, staff turnover, motivation, personal characteristics

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Riahi-Belkaoui, Ahmed, The Organizational Climate of Accounting Firms (December 8, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3085013 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3085013
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
258 References
L W Porter , R M Steers
Organizational Work and Personal Factors in Employee Turnover and Absenteeism
Psychological Bulletin , volume 2 , p. 151 - 76 Posted: 1973
Crossref
E E Lawler
Pay and Organizational Effectiveness: A Psychological View Posted: 1971
E A Locke
The Nature and Causes of Job Satisfaction
Handbook of Industrial and Organizational Psychology , p. 1297 - 1349 Posted: 1976
L W Porter , V F Mitchell
Comparative Study of Need Satisfaction in Military and Business Hierarchies
Journal of Applied Psychology , p. 139 - 183 Posted: 1967-04
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,480
RANK
436,820
258 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies