Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Stakeholders in Corporate Governance: A View from Accounting Research

Foundations and Trends in Accounting (Forthcoming)

97 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2017

Gaizka Ormazabal

University of Navarra, IESE Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 12, 2017

Abstract

I review the empirical research on the role of stakeholders in corporate governance with an emphasis in contributions from the accounting literature. In particular, I focus on the following stakeholders: employees, the general public, the media, related firms, the government, private regulators, gatekeepers, and foreigners. This list does not include capital providers (shareholders and debt-holders), as the governance role of these stakeholders has already been covered by prior surveys in the academic literature. The discussion is structured around each stakeholder’s incentives to influence managerial behavior, the mechanisms through which stakeholders act on managerial actions, as well as any concerns about this influence. All the analyzed stakeholders appear capable of influencing managerial actions to some extent, but the efficacy of stakeholders’ monitoring role is controversial. Empirical research uncovers several factors that undermine stakeholders’ incentives to discipline corporate managers. And more critically, in some cases stakeholders’ incentives appear to be misaligned not only with shareholders’ interests but also with the public interest. Taken together, the reviewed evidence suggests that the monitoring role involves a wide range of actors beyond the board of directors and capital providers. The review also points out that there is still much to learn about stakeholder monitoring.

Keywords: corporate governance, stakeholders, accounting

JEL Classification: G1, G3, K2, L5

Suggested Citation:

Ormazabal, Gaizka, The Role of Stakeholders in Corporate Governance: A View from Accounting Research (December 12, 2017). Foundations and Trends in Accounting (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3086875
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
276 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , A Kermani , J Kwak , T Mitton
The value of connections in turbulent times: Evidence from the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , p. 368 - 391 Posted: 2016
Crossref
V Acharya , S Myers , R Rajan
The internal governance of firms
Journal of Finance , volume 66 , p. 689 - 720 Posted: 2011
Crossref
V Acharya , P Volpin
Corporate governance externalities
Review of Finance , volume 14 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Adams , B Hermalin , M Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,112
RANK
39,450
276 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies