Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
It's About Time! The Influence of Institutional Investment Horizon on Corporate Social Responsibility

Thunderbird International Business Review, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2017 Last revised: 8 Jan 2018

Sabri Boubaker

Ecole de Management de Normandie

Lamia Chourou

University of Ottawa

Darlene Himick

University of Ottawa - Telfer School of Management

Samir Saadi

School of Management, University of Ottawa

Date Written: April 13, 2017

Abstract

The U.S. equity market has witnessed the rising power of institutional investors over the past three decades. Yet, even as these institutional owners become more powerful their effect on corporate social responsibility (CSR) still remains unclear. The present study attempts to fill this gap by examining these investors’ influence on CSR along the dimension of investor time horizon. We find robust evidence that ownership by institutional investors with long investment horizon is positively associated with higher CSR scores while ownership by institutional investors with short investment horizon is either negatively or not significantly associated with CSR scores. The same results hold when we consider ownership by public pension funds, which present a unique case in which a theoretically long-term horizon has recently been questioned, due to pressures towards short-termism. Granger causality tests also show that the direction of the observed effects goes from institutional ownership to CSR and not the opposite.

Keywords: Institutional Investors, Investment Horizon, CSR

JEL Classification: G23, G30, M14

Suggested Citation:

Boubaker, Sabri and Chourou, Lamia and Himick, Darlene and Saadi, Samir, It's About Time! The Influence of Institutional Investment Horizon on Corporate Social Responsibility (April 13, 2017). Thunderbird International Business Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3087575 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3087575
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 182 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Arnold Hammond , T
The role of accounting in ideological conflict: Lessons from the South African divestment movement. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 126 Posted: 1994
N Attig , S Cleary , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami
Institutional investment horizon and investment-cash flow sensitivity
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 1164 - 1180 Posted: 2012
Crossref
N Attig , S Cleary , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami
Institutional investment horizons and the cost of equity capital
Financial Management , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 441 - 477 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,290
RANK
398,904
6 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies