Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Productivity in Top-10 Academic Accounting Journals by Researchers at Canadian Universities at the Start of the 21st Century

Accounting Perspectives, Vol. 16, No. 4, pp. 270-313, 2017

62 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2017 Last revised: 10 Apr 2018

Merridee L. Bujaki

Carleton University - Eric Sprott School of Business

Bruce J. McConomy

Wilfrid Laurier University

Date Written: December 12, 2017

Abstract

We assess the research publication productivity of Canadian-based accounting researchers in highly ranked accounting journals for the 2001–13 period. Our research provides important benchmarks for use by individual researchers and universities for matters such as promotion and tenure decisions. For example, each Canadian-based faculty member had approximately 0.50 of a weighted article for the 13-year period, and 45 percent of all accounting faculty members published at least once in a top-10 accounting journal. We also provide an overview of the type of research being published by Canadian-based researchers in each of the top-10 journals (financial accounting, managerial, audit, tax or other) and we assess how productivity at top-10 journals has changed over time. In supplemental analysis, we compare and contrast the productivity of the 15 male and 15 female academics that publish most in top-10 accounting journals to assess the breadth of outlets being used beyond top-10 outlets (including FT 45 journals, accounting journals ranked “A”, “B”, and “non-A/B”; non-accounting peer-reviewed journals, non-peer-reviewed outlets). The supplemental analysis also helps to shed light on the finding from this paper, and prior research, that women are less likely to be represented on lists of those with most publications in highly ranked accounting journals, by comparing the two groups of researchers across a variety of institutional and other factors.

Keywords: Research productivity, Canadian, Top-10 journals, Male and female academics

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Bujaki, Merridee L. and McConomy, Bruce J., Productivity in Top-10 Academic Accounting Journals by Researchers at Canadian Universities at the Start of the 21st Century (December 12, 2017). Accounting Perspectives, Vol. 16, No. 4, pp. 270-313, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3087669
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
Association of Business Schools (now known as Chartered Association of Business Schools)
Academic Journal Guide. Available
Crossref
Journal Quality List Posted: 2013
Crossref
A Ballas , V Theoharakis
Exploring diversity in accounting through faculty journal perceptions
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 619 - 663 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
William M. Cready , Bo Liu , Di Wang
A Content Based Assessment of the Relative Quality of Leading Accounting Journals
34 Pages · Posted: 3 Sep 2019 · Downloads: 139
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
284
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,725
RANK
245,414
1 Citations
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies