Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conceptualizing Small Business Social Responsibility Communication: The Governmentality Dilemma

Posted: 19 Dec 2017

Mette Morsing

Misum; Copenhagen Business School

Laura J. Spence

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Date Written: January 2016

Abstract

Corporate Social Responsibility communication in small firms has received little attention to date, but suffers particularly from poor theorization. In this conceptual paper we present the ‘governmentality dilemma’ where owner-managers who are committed to Small Business Social Responsibility (SBSR) face two simultaneous and potentially counterproductive expectations. First, responding to externally prescribed expectations, norms and standards such as branding, codes of conduct and CSR reporting. Second, an internally prescribed ethos of a personal philosophy of ethics and norms such as family identity and employee values, concern for local community and legacy of the company. We develop a framework which suggests a spectrum of disciplining effects of social responsibility in relation to implicit and explicit CSR to which small firm managers are increasingly exposed. We analyse these with a Foucauldian lens from the perspectives of surveillance, examination and normalization to identify governmentality dilemmas of authenticity, control and identity.

Suggested Citation:

Morsing, Mette and Spence, Laura J., Conceptualizing Small Business Social Responsibility Communication: The Governmentality Dilemma (January 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3088479
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
788
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies