Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mind the Gap: CEO-Employee Pay Ratios and Shareholder Say-on-Pay Votes

52 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2017 Last revised: 13 May 2020

Steve Crawford

University of Houston

Karen K. Nelson

Texas Christian University - Department of Accounting

Brian Rountree

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: March 19, 2020

Abstract

We examine the Securities and Exchange Commission’s assertion in the Pay Ratio Disclosure rule that the ratio of CEO to employee pay is useful to shareholders for say-on-pay (SOP) voting decisions. Using an estimated pay ratio for a broad panel of commercial banks from 2010-2017, we find that voting dissent on SOP proposals is significantly higher in the top pay ratio decile, particularly when institutional ownership is high. Results are robust to controlling for a number of other determinants of voting dissent, including proxy advisor recommendations and executive compensation. Additionally, inferences using the first year of disclosed pay ratios in 2017 for S&P 1500 firms are consistent. However, we do not find similar results in the other deciles of the pay ratio in either sample, calling into question whether a cost-benefit analysis would support the disclosure requirement imposed by Dodd-Frank and implemented by the SEC.

Keywords: Pay Ratio, Say-On-Pay, Dodd-Frank Act

Suggested Citation:

Crawford, Steve and Nelson, Karen K. and Rountree, Brian Robert, Mind the Gap: CEO-Employee Pay Ratios and Shareholder Say-on-Pay Votes (March 19, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3088052 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3088052
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Afl-Cio
Proxy Voting Guidelines: Exercising Authority, Restoring Accountability Posted: 2012
G Akerlof , J Yellen
Fairness and unemployment
American Economic Review , volume 78 , p. 44 - 49 Posted: 1988
G Akerlof , J J Yellen
The fair wage-effort hypothesis and unemployment
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 105 , p. 255 - 283 Posted: 1990
Crossref
C Alexander , M Chen , D Seppi , C Spatt
Interim news and the role of proxy voting advice
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , p. 4419 - 4454 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
698
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,510
RANK
84,913
12 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies