Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting as a Normalizing Tool for Transitional Dirtiness: The Case of the U.S. Adult-Use Cannabis Industry

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

66 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2017 Last revised: 1 Feb 2022

Andrea M. Romi

Texas Tech University - Area of Accounting

Heather Carrasco

Texas Tech University

Casey Camors

Mississippi State University

John Masselli

Texas Tech University - Rawls College of Business

Date Written: August 20, 2021

Abstract

In this study, we conduct in-depth interviews to examine the role accounting plays in the development of the U.S. cannabis industry as it transitions from the illicit market where formal accounting was systematically avoided, to a state-legal market where participants are subject to conventional business processes. Facing impediments to traditional operational practices and pressures to increase normative conformity for industry survival, cannabis operators relied on three normalizing strategies (creative concession, collaborative facilitation, and experimentation), seemingly influenced by the incongruencies between prior illicit-market culture and experiences, and the state-legal operating environment. In response to what operators perceived to be coercive regulation, they incorporated creative concession strategies, including influencing, bargaining, challenging, escaping, and cessation tactics. However, in response to pressures to adopt more commonly accepted forms of accounting, cannabis operators instead deployed two different strategies, one focused on acquiescence to normalizing pressures when doing so facilitated essential relationship building (i.e., collaborative facilitation strategies), and one deployed as strategic experimentation, working to normalize industry activities in areas of perceived threats to industry acceptance and continuity. Given cannabis operator accounting naiveté, its usefulness was often introduced by peripheral industry parties attempting to normalize their own participation with the cannabis industry. Notably, we also find that normalizing pressures occasionally resulted in unintended consequences, including reversion to the illicit market and forgoing normalizing strategies in favor of retaining some level of dirtiness to fend off pending competition, both of which threaten to reemphasize the industry’s dirtiness. Our study, therefore, points to accounting itself as a central mechanism in the complex, multidirectional strategy to normalize transitional dirtiness.


Keywords: normalization of dirtiness; accounting; cannabis; marijuana; normalizing strategies; transitional normalization.

Suggested Citation:

Romi, Andrea and Carrasco, Heather and Camors, Casey and Masselli, John, Accounting as a Normalizing Tool for Transitional Dirtiness: The Case of the U.S. Adult-Use Cannabis Industry (August 20, 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3090386 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3090386
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
128 References
M A Abernethy , W F Chua
A field study control system "redesign": The impact of institutional processes on strategic choice
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 569 - 606 Posted: 1996
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Accounting for flexibility and efficiency: A field study of management control systems in a restaurant chain
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 271 - 301 Posted: 2004
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Doing qualitative field research in management accounting: Positioning data to contribute to theory
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 31 , issue 8 , p. 819 - 841 Posted: 2006
H E Aldrich , E R Auster
Even dwarfs started small: Liabilities of age and size and their strategic implications
Research in Organizational Behavior , volume 8 , p. 165 - 198 Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
523
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,167
RANK
122,782
128 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies