Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Induce Persistent, Value-Increasing, Cash Holding Policies: The Effect of Long-Term Incentives

59 Pages Posted: 26 Dec 2017

Felix Weidemann

University of Cologne - Department of Financial Accounting & Auditing

Date Written: November 30, 2017

Abstract

This study exploits a German legal-initiative on incentive-based compensation and reveals that managerial compensation contingent on long-term performance increases the long-term focus in cash holding policies. Prior research reports that such persistent cash holding policies increase the value of cash. Consequently, this analysis identifies a real effect of long-term incentives and of the German regulation, and finds an instrument to increase the value of cash. These insights indicate potential effects of a proposed US regulation sharing several features with the German regulation. Finally, this study proposes a novel setting to address some of the endogeneity in research on long-term incentives.

Keywords: Cash Holdings, Cash Policy, Abnormal Cash, Incentive-Based Compensation

JEL Classification: G3, G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Weidemann, Felix, How to Induce Persistent, Value-Increasing, Cash Holding Policies: The Effect of Long-Term Incentives (November 30, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3090907 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3090907
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,221
RANK
618,599
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies