Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure: A Topic-Based Approach

45 Pages Posted: 26 Dec 2017 Last revised: 19 Aug 2020

Katrin Hummel

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Stephanie Mittelbach-Hoermanseder

WU Vienna

Charles H. Cho

ESSEC Business School; York University - Schulich School of Business

Dirk Matten

York University - Schulich School of Business

Date Written: August 19, 2020

Abstract

In this paper, we investigate potential differences in topic-specific CSR disclosure between companies located in liberal market economies (LMEs) and companies located in coordinated market economies (CMEs). Furthermore, we examine the potential convergence of the reporting practices that characterise these two economies over time. For that purpose, we analyse a sample of 3,537 CSR reports issued by European and US firms over the period 2008–2015. We use textual analysis to examine how explicitly such reports address specific CSR topics. Following Matten and Moon (2008), we focus on three thematic areas; namely ‘human resources’, ‘environmental protection’ and ‘society at large’. Each thematic area comprises three distinct topics. Our results show that companies operating in LMEs report more explicitly on issues concerning diversity, education, philanthropy and the community. In contrast, companies operating in CMEs report more explicitly on parental policies, climate change and biodiversity. Despite these differences, our results indicate that the reporting practices of companies operating in these two distinct types of economies have been converging with regard to philanthropy and community-related issues. For the disclosure on parental leave policies, the differences appear to manifest over time, while for the disclosure on the other topics, no distinct trend is observable.

Keywords: CSR disclosure, explicit CSR, textual analysis, topic-based analysis, time trend

Suggested Citation:

Hummel, Katrin and Mittelbach-Hoermanseder, Stephanie and Cho, Charles H. and Matten, Dirk, Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure: A Topic-Based Approach (August 19, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3090976 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3090976
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
B Alrazi , C De Villiers , C J Van Staden
The environmental disclosures of the electriticty generation industry: A global perspective
Accounting and Business Research , volume 46 , issue 6 , p. 665 - 701 Posted: 2016
Crossref
I Bache , A Jordan
The Europeanization of British politics
The Europeanization of British Politics , p. 265 - 279 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J Bertomeu , A Beyer , D J Taylor
From casual to causal inference in accountin research: The need for theoreticcal foundations
Foundations & Trends in Accounting , volume 10 , issue 2-4 , p. 179 - 236 Posted: 2016
Crossref
S Brammer , S Pavelin
Corporate community contributions in the United kingdom and the United States
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 56 , p. 15 - 26 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,823
RANK
42,073
13 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies