Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Venture Capital, Disclosure, and Financial Reporting

Corporate Governance: An International Review, Nov. 2021, Vol. 29, No. 6, pp. 541-566

51 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2018 Last revised: 15 Mar 2022

Sophia Hamm

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Michael J. Jung

University of Delaware - Alfred Lerner College of Business and Economics

Min Park

University of Kansas - Accounting and Information Systems Area

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 2, 2019

Abstract

Corporate venture capital (CVC) is one of the most important avenues for corporate innovation today, yet there can be unintended consequences related to anticompetitive practices. Recent scrutiny from regulators and policymakers underscores their growing desire for more information about firms’ CVC investment activities, even of those previously believed to be too small to matter. Using a comprehensive sample of 115 publicly-listed U.S. parent firms that owned 133 CVC firms, we document that for almost half of the firm-years in our sample, parent firms do not disclose any information about their CVC program. Among the parent firms that do disclose their CVC activities, we find that they disclose less when they make investments in industries outside of their core industry. Firms with a CVC program, relative to similar firms without a CVC program, tend to make more future acquisitions and report less future goodwill asset write-downs. This study documents the current state of affairs with respect to the amount of publicly available CVC information for a large sample of firms, an important starting point for regulators and policymakers to conduct an informed debate about whether disclosure requirements should be expanded.

Keywords: Corporate venture capital, voluntary disclosure, acquisitions, financial reporting

JEL Classification: M41, G11, G24, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Hamm, Sophia and Jung, Michael J. and Park, Min, Corporate Venture Capital, Disclosure, and Financial Reporting (December 2, 2019). Corporate Governance: An International Review, Nov. 2021, Vol. 29, No. 6, pp. 541-566, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3090797 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3090797
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
M Alter , L Buchsbaum
Corporate venturing: Goals, compensation, and taxes
Asset Alternatives , p. 25 - 29 Posted: 2000
P Asel , H D Park , S R Velamuri
Creating Values through Corporate Venture Capital Programs: The Choice between Internal and External Fund Structures
The Journal of Private Equity , volume 19 , p. 63 - 72 Posted: 2015
S Basu , C Phelps , S Kotha
Towards understanding who makes corporate venture capital investments and why
Journal of Business Venturing , volume 26 , p. 153 - 171 Posted: 2011
D Benson , R H Ziedonis
Corporate venture capital as a window on new technologies: Implications for the performance of corporate investors when acquiring startups
Organization Science , volume 20 , p. 329 - 351 Posted: 2009
Load more
1 Citations
Nadine Ladnar , Alexander Zureck
Analysis of Corporate Venture Capital from an Investor Perspective
52 Pages · Posted: 29 May 2019 · Downloads: 737
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
618
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,386
RANK
68,309
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies