Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Political Connections Weaken Tax Enforcement Effectiveness?

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 26 Dec 2017

Kenny Lin

Lingnan University

Lillian F. Mills

The University of Texas at Austin; University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Fang Zhang

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) - Department of Accountancy & Law

Yongbo Li

Shenzhen Audencia Financial Technology Institute

Date Written: December 19, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines whether ties to politicians by corporate boards of directors weaken the effectiveness of tax authorities in constraining tax avoidance in China. We use a unique dataset to measure geographic time-variant tax enforcement, including the probability of income tax audit, the expertise of tax officers, and the consequences of underreporting tax liabilities. Based on a sample of 11,121 firm-years from 2003 to 2013, we find that the deterrent effect of the probability that a firm’s taxable income understatement will be detected and lead to heavy penalties is significantly undermined if the board is politically connected. To enhance our analysis, we use opportunities for income shifting, the most likely mechanism through which Chinese firms avoid taxes on an ongoing basis, to illustrate how connected boards exert power to unwind the constraining effect of tax enforcement. Overall, our results suggest that a board’s ties to politicians can be a significant challenge to the effective enforcement of tax compliance in a politically controlled economy.

Keywords: effective tax rates, income shifting, political connections, tax avoidance, tax enforcement

JEL Classification: H25, H26, M40

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Kenny and Mills, Lillian F. and Mills, Lillian F. and Zhang, Fang and Li, Yongbo, Do Political Connections Weaken Tax Enforcement Effectiveness? (December 19, 2017). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3090778
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,880
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies