Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance of Tunnelling in Developing Countries: Evidence from Bangladesh

Posted: 29 Dec 2017 Last revised: 20 Jan 2019

Mohammad Tareq

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University) - School of Accounting and Law

Noor Houqe

School of Accountancy

Tony van Zijl

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Commerce and Administration

Date Written: January 20, 2019

Abstract

Tunnelling (also known as self-dealing transactions) are non-arm’s length transactions with related parties of controlling shareholders for private benefit at the cost of other shareholders. Tunnelling is a governance issue between controlling shareholders and minority shareholders in both developed and developing countries. However, most studies on tunnelling are in developed countries with the few exceptions of studies in China, India and Mexico. Using Oliver Williamson’s Market and Hierarchy model this paper theoretically analyses the suitability of the governance of tunnelling in Bangladesh. Interviewing directors, independent directors and audit committee members, this study identifies the limitation and factors that affect the implementation and enforcement of current governance requirements for restricting tunnelling practices in Bangladesh.



Keywords: tunnelling; Bangladesh; market and hierarchy model

Suggested Citation:

Tareq, Mohammad and Houqe, Muhammad Nurul and van Zijl, Tony, Governance of Tunnelling in Developing Countries: Evidence from Bangladesh (January 20, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3092936
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,254
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies