Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carbon Embedded Governance: Effects on Disclosure and Performance

Posted: 2 Jan 2018

Binh Bui

Victoria University of Wellington

Noor Houqe

School of Accountancy

Mahbub Zaman

Hull University Business School; Aarhus University, Department of Management

Date Written: December 24, 2017

Abstract

Although prior research has examined corporate governance, few studies explicitly examine governance dedicated to sustainability issues. This paper examines (i) the combined impact of different carbon-embedded governance mechanisms (CGM) on carbon disclosure and (ii) the effect of CGM on the carbon performance-disclosure relationship. Using 361 observations from S&P500 firms from 2013 to 2015, we find CGM increase the alignment between carbon performance and carbon disclosure. Strong climate governance reduces over-acclaiming of good performance via extensive disclosure and low-polluters disclose more to differentiate themselves. Our findings highlight the importance of the frequency of reporting to boards, and of both monetary and non-monetary incentive schemes for improving carbon performance and disclosure. Overall, the results suggest that, in contrast to traditional governance structures (such as board independence, size, and diversity), CGM better reflect firms’ commitment to addressing sustainability issues and providing more transparent reporting and accountability to stakeholders.

Keywords: carbon governance; climate change; performance; disclosure; sustainability

Suggested Citation:

Bui, Binh and Houqe, Muhammad Nurul and Zaman, Mahbub, Carbon Embedded Governance: Effects on Disclosure and Performance (December 24, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3092901
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,424
9 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies