Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Ability, Information Quality, and the Design and Pricing of Corporate Debt

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2017

Alex Petkevich

University of Denver

Andrew K. Prevost

University of Vermont

Date Written: December 01, 2015

Abstract

We examine if managerial ability affects the efficiency of the contracting environment with lenders. We find that higher ability alters the balance of information-sensitive covenants demanded by outside investors, increases the issuance of bonds with longer maturity, and decreases the issuance of senior secured debt. We also document higher ability reduces the risk premium demanded by investors on information-sensitive debt. These results are collectively consistent with the premise that the mitigation of information risk is an important dimension of managerial ability that has a direct bearing on the structure and pricing of corporate debt.

Keywords: managerial ability, asymmetric information, corporate debt

JEL Classification: G12, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Petkevich, Alex and Prevost, Andrew K., Managerial Ability, Information Quality, and the Design and Pricing of Corporate Debt (December 01, 2015). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3092420
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
5 Citations
Malek El Diri , Mohammad Alhadab
The Impact of Earnings Management and Managerial Ability on Management Compensation
65 Pages · Posted: 21 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 208
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alex Petkevich , Pavel Teterin
Distracted Banks and Corporate Bond Pricing
47 Pages · Posted: 1 Dec 2021 · Last revised: 10 Feb 2022 · Downloads: 101
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Tarek Abdelfattah , Mohamed Elmahgoub , Collins G. Ntim
Extended Audit Report, Auditor Disclosure Tone and Cost of Debt: Evidence From the UK
54 Pages · Posted: 27 Dec 2021 · Last revised: 10 Jan 2022 · Downloads: 359
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rosemond Desir , Jiwon Nam , Ray Pfeiffer
Does Managerial Ability Improve the Predictability and Relevance of Earnings?
51 Pages · Posted: 14 Sep 2022 · Downloads: 132
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,513
RANK
409,437
5 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies