Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Accounting Matter for Capital Formation? Determinants and Consequences of Private Equity Fund Financial Reporting Choices

60 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2017 Last revised: 7 Oct 2025

Jennifer J. Gaver

University of Georgia - J. M. Tull School of Accounting, Terry College of Business

Paul Mason

Baylor University

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 07, 2025

Abstract

Private equity (PE) funds are increasingly important to the economy and to investors, yet we know little about many aspects of these inherently opaque and lightly regulated funds. We study the fundamental financial reporting choices – audit, auditor, and accounting standard – of PE funds and evaluate whether these choices affect funds’ capital formation. We find that fund size and ownership characteristics are associated with decisions to obtain an audit, use a Big 4 auditor, and prepare GAAP financial statements. These results suggest that PE funds’ agency costs and investors’ information needs influence funds’ financial reporting choices. However, we find little evidence that financial reporting facilitates PE fundraising. Results are consistent with either financial reporting failing to aid capital formation in PE markets, in contrast to other markets, or with PE funds voluntarily choosing financial reporting only when needed (e.g., only used by funds that would have worse fundraising without reporting). In either case, results are inconsistent with recent SEC efforts to regulate PE fund financial reporting and suggest that mandates would impose requirements on funds that are unlikely to benefit from the mandates.

Keywords: Audit choice, GAAP choice, Capital formation, Private equity, Venture capital, SEC regulations

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Gaver, Jennifer J. and Mason, Paul and Utke, Steven, Does Accounting Matter for Capital Formation? Determinants and Consequences of Private Equity Fund Financial Reporting Choices (October 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3092331 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3092331
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
121 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
Why do private companies demand auditing
Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 52 Posted: 1993
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
B C Ayers , S Ramalingegowda , P E Yeung
Hometown advantage: The effects of monitoring institution location on financial reporting discretion
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 52 , p. 41 - 61 Posted: 2011
B A Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego
The separation of ownership and control and corporate tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 228 - 250 Posted: 2013
Load more
1 Citations
Petro Lisowsky , Michael Minnis
The Silent Majority: Private U.S. Firms and Financial Reporting Choices
Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 14-01 · 75 Pages · Posted: 9 Jan 2014 · Last revised: 2 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 1,671
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
569
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,815
RANK
110,471
1 Citations
121 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies