Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Strategy and Earnings Quality: A Cross-Country Study

Posted: 29 Dec 2017

Noor Houqe

School of Accountancy

Ryan Kerr

Victoria University of Wellington

Reza Monem

Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith Business School, Griffith University

Tony van Zijl

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Commerce and Administration

Date Written: December 24, 2017

Abstract

Using the Miles & Snow (1978, 2003) strategy typology and a measure of strategy based on Bentley, Omar, & Sharp (2013) and Ittner, Larcker, & Rajan (1997), we investigate whether business strategy is associated with the quality of reported earnings. Our sample comprises 44,264 firm-year observations across 19 countries over the period 1998–2014. We predict and find that prospector-strategy firms exhibit higher levels of accounting conservatism and defender-strategy firms exhibit higher levels of earnings management. Thus, we provide direct evidence of the link between business strategy and earnings quality. Our findings have implications for analysts, investors, and auditors in that knowing a firm’s strategy can provide insights about the quality of reported earnings of the firm.

Keywords: Business strategy; Earnings quality; Accounting conservatism; Earnings management

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Houqe, Muhammad Nurul and Kerr, Ryan and Monem, Reza M. and van Zijl, Tony, Business Strategy and Earnings Quality: A Cross-Country Study (December 24, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3092932
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,636
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies