Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reviewing the Voluntary Disclosure of Companies of 'Tehran Stock Exchange' and 'Netherland Stock Exchange'

12 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2017

Yaghoub Aghdam Mazraeh

Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Soofian Branch

Hanyeh Karimzadeh

Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Accounting Department

Date Written: December 23, 2017

Abstract

For making aware the investors about the companies’ goals and aims and future views and perspectives, some of Iranian and Dutch companies’ prime ministers tried to do the voluntary disclosure. The research concluded that the financial and non-financial voluntary disclosure about the mentioned companies cause to decrease the lack of information symmetry, rising the share liquidity and finally improving the financial situation of company. Hence, the present research tried to study two stock exchanges; Tehran and Netherland Stock Exchanges, respectively. The results of the study will help the other researchers to have a suitable perspective about Voluntary disclosure in stock exchange.

Keywords: Voluntary, Disclosure, Financial and Non-Financial Voluntary, Tehran Stock Exchange, Netherland Stock Exchange

Suggested Citation:

Mazraeh, Yaghoub Aghdam and Karimzadeh, Hanyeh, Reviewing the Voluntary Disclosure of Companies of 'Tehran Stock Exchange' and 'Netherland Stock Exchange' (December 23, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3092591 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3092591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
A Al-Aidaros , K M Idris , F M Shamsudin
The Accountant's Ethical Code of Conduct from a Islamic Perspective: Case in Yemen
Journal of Global Management , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 20 - 26 Posted: 1967
S Brammer , G Williams , J Zinkin
Religion and Attitudes to Corporate Social Responsibility in a Large Cross-Country Sample
Journal of Business Ethics , issue 3 , p. 229 - 272 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Calkins , C Clements , J D Neill , O S Stovall
Recovering Religion's Prophetic Voice for Business Ethics
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 173 - 83 Posted: 2000
J Cohen , L Pant , D Sharp
Cultural and Socioeconomic Constraints on International Codes of Ethics: Lessons from Accounting
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 11 , issue 9 , p. 687 - 700 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,182
RANK
848,823
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies