Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Ethic: Credibility Dilemmas

14 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2018

C'Lamt Ho, D.B.A.

Saint Leo University | Tampa Area; Saint Leo University - Donald R. Tapia School of Business

Date Written: December 23, 2017

Abstract

Since 2002, accounting ethics has received tremendous renewed attention. The concerns of unethical conducts centered around fraudulent activities. Publicly traded corporations are pressured to provide a favorable earning, which causes unethical conducts. The pressure to establish strong standards code of conduct by many governing bodies. This is nothing new related to the financial market. The Security Act of 1933, The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and The Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002 are just few important regulations, which intended to increase the accountability in the accounting profession. However, the credibility dilemmas remain.

Keywords: accounting issues, ethics, credibility, and accounting curriculum

Suggested Citation:

Ho, D.B.A., C'Lamt, Accounting Ethic: Credibility Dilemmas (December 23, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3093682 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3093682
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
A Acevedo
How Sarbanes-Oxley should be used to expose the secrets of Discretion, Judgment, and Materiality of the Auditor's
DePaul Business & Commercial Law Journal , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 53 Posted: 2005
Ethics Enforcement Posted: 2006
N Adkins , R Radtke
Students' and Faculty Members' Perceptions of the Importance of Business Ethics and Accounting Ethics Education: Is There an Expectations Gap
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 51 , issue 3 , p. 279 - 300 Posted: 2004
Crossref
N Atkin
Ethics and Public Relations from an Assessment Perspective
Assessment Journal , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 51 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,523
RANK
342,507
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies