Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital-Market Effects of Securities Regulation: Prior Conditions, Implementation, and Enforcement Revisited

20 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2017 Last revised: 3 Feb 2018

Douglas J. Cumming

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Sofia Johan

Florida Atlantic University - Finance; University of Vaasa; Tilburg Law and Economics Center (TILEC)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 26, 2017

Abstract

There are at least three possible times that changes in securities regulations are effective: (1) the date that the securities regulations are put forth (e.g., as in a pan-European Union directive); (2) the date that the new regulations are signed into law; and (3) the date at which new regulations are implemented with organizational agreements and computerized market surveillance, in order to detect the wrongdoing that is the subject of the new regulations. While it is not clear from Christensen, Hail, and Leuz (2016 Review of Financial Studies), the market abuse rules they examine are the same as in Cumming, Johan, and Li (2011 Journal of Financial Economics), with a difference in focus on the date: Christensen et al. (2016) pick date (2), while Cumming et al. (2011)pick date (3). Both papers study and find the exact same effect: regulatory change improves market liquidity. We explain the relative merits of the different approaches in this paper. Also, we explain that Christensen et al. (2016) mischaracterize Cumming et al. (2011) with respect to not examining changes in regulation over time, the use of dummy variables versus exchange trading rule legal indices Cumming et al. created, and difference-in-differences tests to study regulatory changes, among other things.

Keywords: Securities Regulation, Market Manipulation, Liquidity, Insider Trading, Broker-Agency Conflict, Law And Finance

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G18, K22

Suggested Citation:

Cumming, Douglas J. and Johan, Sofia A., Capital-Market Effects of Securities Regulation: Prior Conditions, Implementation, and Enforcement Revisited (December 26, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3093580 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3093580
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
M Aitken , D J Cumming , D J , F Zhan
Exchange Trading Rules, Surveillance, and Suspected Insider Trading
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 34 , p. 311 - 330 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Aitken , D J Cumming , F Zhan
High Frequency Trading and End-of-Day Price Dislocation
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 59 , p. 330 - 349 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Aitken , A Siow
Ranking equity markets on the basis of market efficiency and integrity. Hewlett-Packard Handbook of World Stock, Derivative & Commodity Exchanges , p. xliv - lv Posted: 2003
C Barra , S Destefanis , G L Lavaderea
Risk and Regulation: A Difference-inDifferences Analysis for Italian Local Banks
Finance Research Letters , volume 17 , p. 25 - 32 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,674
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,342
RANK
16,039
5 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies