Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between Internal Audit Assurance Frequency and Earnings Manipulation Intent and Behavior: A Theory of Planned Behavior Approach

Posted: 3 Jan 2018 Last revised: 11 Jun 2023

Dereck Barr-Pulliam

University of Louisville

Date Written: December 1, 2017

Abstract

This study uses Ajzen’s (1991) theory of planned behavior (TPB) to examine whether the internal audit function’s use of continuous auditing affects managers intent and actual behavior related to earnings manipulation. I conduct an experiment where 265 corporate managers assume the role of a divisional vice president incentivized by an annual bonus based on divisional performance. At midyear, participants signal their intent and actual earnings manipulation behavior in a setting where the division is on target to miss the annualized earnings target if the manager does nothing. Consistent with theory, univariate analyses suggest that managers who indicate higher perceptions on each of the three TPB elements were more likely to manipulate earnings. Multivariate analyses support a positive relationship between each measure and earnings manipulation intent, however, the attitudes measure is statistically insignificant. Related to actual behavior, I predict and find that managers who intend to manipulate earnings actually do so. Further, I find that participants who intend to manipulate earnings prefer to use accounting estimates relative to accounting expenditures as their earnings manipulation mechanism in this setting. In additional analyses, I find managers with current or prior audit committee experience were less likely to manipulate earnings. Lastly, I find that managers are indeed less likely to manipulate earnings when the internal audit function uses continuous auditing. This study contributes to knowledge by disentangling earnings manipulation intent from actual behavior. Results of the study should be of interest to auditors, academics, and financial statement preparers.

Keywords: internal audit, continuous auditing, Theory of Planned Behavior, earnings manipulation

Suggested Citation:

Barr-Pulliam, Dereck, The Relationship between Internal Audit Assurance Frequency and Earnings Manipulation Intent and Behavior: A Theory of Planned Behavior Approach (December 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3093735 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3093735
 Not Available for Download
0 References
2 Citations
Joseph V. Carcello , Marc Eulerich , Adi Masli , David A. Wood
Are Internal Audits Associated with Reductions in Perceived Risk?
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 55 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Joseph V. Carcello , Marc Eulerich , Adi Masli , David A. Wood
Are Internal Audits Associated with Reductions in Perceived Risk?
41 Pages · Posted: 18 May 2017 · Last revised: 24 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 1,210
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,891
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies