Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Accounting Information Systems on Internal Auditors in Turkey

Marmara Üniversitesi Öneri Dergisi, Volume 12, 2016

16 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2018 Last revised: 4 Jan 2018

Omer Tan

Marmara University

Date Written: July 10, 2016

Abstract

The increasing sophistication of technology has opened up the use of accounting information systems (AIS) to companies. These systems are important because they enable all levels of management to access comprehensive information that goes into the planning and controlling of activities within business organizations. In addition, AIS provide quality information to internal and external users and typically cover six main aspects: people, procedures, data, software, information technology infrastructure, and internal controls. This study uses a questionnaire survey to examine the influence of AIS on internal auditors in Turkey. AIS is vital for internal auditors because they process the transactions, that is, they maintain financial records. It is, to the best of my knowledge, the first study to do so. In all, I put 12 questions and 106 internal auditors were agreed to participate the survey and found that internal auditors in Turkey believe that AIS contribute positively to their work.

Keywords: Accounting Information Systems, Internal Auditors, Questionnaire Survey

Suggested Citation:

Tan, Omer Faruk, Impact of Accounting Information Systems on Internal Auditors in Turkey (July 10, 2016). Marmara Üniversitesi Öneri Dergisi, Volume 12, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3094751
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
B B Bae , P Ashcroft
Implementation of ERP systems: Accounting and auditing implications
Information Systems Control Journal Posted: 2004
A M Qatawneh
The Effect of Electronic Commerce on the Accounting Information System of Jordanian Banks
International Business Research , volume 5 , issue 5 , p. 158 - 163 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Y Sambasivan , K B Assefa
Evaluating the Design of Accounting Information System and its Implementation in Ethiopian Manufacturing Industries
Research Journal of Sciences & IT Management , volume 2 , issue 7 , p. 16 - 29 Posted: 2013
A I Nicolau
A Contingency Model of Perceived Effectiveness in Accounting Information Systems: Organizational Coordination and Control Effects
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 1 , p. 91 - 105 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
481
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,208
RANK
135,822
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies