Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Governance on the Wellbeing of Individuals or Organisations

9th Conference on Financial Markets and Corporate Governance (FMCG) 2018

17 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2018 Last revised: 10 Jan 2018

Shann Turnbull

International Institute for Self-Governance; Sustainable Money Working Group; New Garden City Alliance

Date Written: December 30, 2017

Abstract

Ten of the eleven OECD metrics established for measuring individual wellbeing can be directly affected by how organizations are governed. Two types of governance architecture are considered:

(i) simple centralised command and control hierarchies and,

(ii) an ecological form universally found in nature and pre-modern societies that Nobel Laureate Elinor Osprom described as possessing “polycentric compound” decision-making centres as also found in human brains.

Modern stakeholder controlled organisations that survive over generations typically possess an ecological form of governance. This can be explained by the ability of networks to simplify complex dynamic environments as comprehensively as required to survive from distributed decision-making. While centralised hierarchies simplify complexity incompletely and less immediately by filtering data through different levels that can obscure harms, opportunities and existential threats. The paper concludes that the OECD metrics provide a basis for rating the quality of governance of organisations or democracy with rich opportunities for research.

Keywords: Hierarchical governance, Individual wellbeing, Network governance, OECD metrics, Organisational wellbeing

JEL Classification: A14, D02, D21, D63, D70, D85, D91, G38, I31, L25, L30, M14

Suggested Citation:

Turnbull, Shann, The Role of Governance on the Wellbeing of Individuals or Organisations (December 30, 2017). 9th Conference on Financial Markets and Corporate Governance (FMCG) 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3094734 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3094734
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Lord Acton
letter written to an ecclesiastic scholar in the context of not supporting papal infallibility Posted: 1887-04
K J Arrow
The limits of organizations 68-70 Posted: 1974
W R Ashby
An introduction to cybernetics Posted: 1956
P Bernstein
Workplace democratization: Its internal dynamics
Transactions Books Posted: 1980
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,067
RANK
405,251
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies