Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Heightened Shareholder Interest in Firm Affairs Following the Inception of Credit Default Swap Trade

Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 3094968

67 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2018 Last revised: 28 Feb 2018

Hyun A. Hong

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management

Jiwoo Ryou

West Virginia University

Anup Srivastava

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Date Written: December 31, 2017

Abstract

The literature shows that a lender becomes reluctant to aid a distressed client after it receives insurance on its outstanding debt via a credit default swap (CDS). The onset of CDS trade thus accelerates client bankruptcy. We predict that the client firm’s shareholders would respond by demanding improved corporate governance and financial reporting quality to protect their interests. We find an increase in independence of the board of directors and a decline in the dual position of chief executive office and board chairman following the onset of CDS trading. We also find higher earnings response coefficient and trading volumes around the earnings announcement dates and lower post–earnings announcement drift. Overall, our results are consistent with the idea that shareholders demand higher quality of, or pay greater attention to, financial reports following the onset of CDS trading.

Keywords: credit default swap, agency conflict, corporate governance, financial reporting quality, bankruptcy

JEL Classification: G32, G33, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hong, Hyun A. and Ryou, Jiwoo and Srivastava, Anup, Heightened Shareholder Interest in Firm Affairs Following the Inception of Credit Default Swap Trade (December 31, 2017). Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 3094968, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3094968 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3094968
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
J S Abarbanell , V L Bernard
Tests of analysts' overreaction/underreaction to earnings information as an explanation for anomalous stock price behavior
The Journal of Finance , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 1181 - 1207 Posted: 1992
Crossref
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
Crossref
S Ahn , W Choi
The role of bank monitoring in corporate governance: Evidence from borrowers' earnings management behavior
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 434 Posted: 2009
Crossref
D Amiram , W Beaver , W Landsman , J Zhao
The effects of CDS trading on information asymmetry in syndicated loans
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,386
RANK
667,795
1 Citations
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies