Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting Carbon Emission Disclosure Management

36 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2018 Last revised: 6 Dec 2020

Thomas Kaspereit

Universite du Luxembourg

Kerstin Lopatta

University of Hamburg - Faculty of Business, Economics, and Social Sciences

Date Written: January 2, 2018

Abstract

This paper measures empirically the extent to which firms manipulate their carbon emission disclosures. Whereas many studies provide empirical evidence for earnings management, the quantitative literature is silent with respect to firms’ intention to manage non-financial disclosures. We fill this gap and develop an empirical model to evaluate whether firms manipulate carbon disclosure in their favor after having incurred environmental controversy costs. Our analyses are based on all firms for which carbon emissions data are available in the Asset4 database. We measure carbon emission disclosure management in two ways: 1) as the (in)consistency between the sign of changes in cost of goods sold (input) and changes in carbon emissions (output), and 2) as the residual from a regression of changes in reported carbon emissions (outputs) on changes in cost of goods sold, depreciation, selling and general administrative expenses, and other operating expenses (inputs). We find support for our hypothesis that firms engage more frequently in decreasing emission disclosure management around years in which they incurred environmental controversy costs. We find no evidence that audits of sustainability reports prevent environmental disclosure management. Thus, external assurance is not able to mitigate the problem of biased environmental disclosures. We attribute this finding to the limited assurance of sustainability report audits. Our findings have implications for the audit profession, which should revise its practice of providing only limited assurance levels on CSR reports and ought to start to transition from a mere labelling to a thorough auditing process. Our results imply that investors and other stakeholders should treat carbon emission disclosures with caution.

Keywords: Sustainability Reporting, Carbon Emissions, CSR, Carbon Emission Disclosure Management

Suggested Citation:

Kaspereit, Thomas and Lopatta, Kerstin, Detecting Carbon Emission Disclosure Management (January 2, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3095495 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3095495
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
S Rangan
Earnings management and the performance of seasoned equity offerings
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 101 - 122 Posted: 1998
J W Rockness
An assessment of the relationship between US corporate environmental performance and disclosure
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 339 - 354 Posted: 1985
Crossref
H Schadewitz , M Niskala
Communication via responsibility reporting and its effect on firm value in Finland
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 96 - 106 Posted: 2010
Crossref
L Shivakumar
Do firms mislead investors by overstating earnings before seasoned equity offerings?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 339 - 371 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
486
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,077
RANK
134,171
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies