Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Policy Uncertainty, Monetary Policy Uncertainty, and Bank Earnings Opacity

2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

44 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2020

Justin Yiqiang Jin

McMaster University - DeGroote School of Business

Kiridaran (Giri) Kanagaretnam

York University - Schulich School of Business

Yi Liu

State University of New York (SUNY) - State University of New York (SUNY) at Oswego

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Date Written: January 6, 2018

Abstract

Using a sample of U.S. banks and indices for economic policy uncertainty and monetary policy uncertainty developed by Baker et al. (2016), we investigate whether these two sources of policy uncertainty affect bank earnings opacity. When economic and monetary policies are relatively uncertain, it is easier for bank managers to distort financial information, as unpredictable policy changes make assessing the existence and impact of hidden “adverse news” more difficult for external stakeholders such as investors and creditors. Policy uncertainty also increases the fluctuation in banks’ earnings and cash flows, thus providing additional incentives and opportunities for bank managers to engage in earnings management. Our results show that uncertainty in economic policy and monetary policy are positively related to earnings opacity, proxied by the magnitude of discretionary loan loss provisions and the likelihood of just meeting or beating the prior year’s earnings, and negatively related to the level of accounting conservatism (i.e., the timeliness of recognition of bad news relative to good news). Collectively, our results suggest that economic policy uncertainty and monetary policy uncertainty lead to greater earnings opacity. We also find that the impact of policy uncertainty on financial reporting distortion is less pronounced for stronger banks (i.e., banks with high capital ratios).

Keywords: Economic policy uncertainty; Monetary policy uncertainty; Earnings opacity; Banking; Discretionary loan loss provisions

JEL Classification: G21; E52

Suggested Citation:

Jin, Justin Y. and Kanagaretnam, Kiridaran and Liu, Yi and Lobo, Gerald J., Economic Policy Uncertainty, Monetary Policy Uncertainty, and Bank Earnings Opacity (January 6, 2018). 2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3097592 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3097592
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
A Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank Loan Loss Provisions: A Reexamination of Capital Management, Earnings Management and Signaling Effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How Does Internal Control Regulation Affect Financial Reporting?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S Baker , N Bloom , S Davis
Measuring Economic Policy Uncertainty
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings Quality in U.K. Private Firms: Comparative Loss Recognition Timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Najah Attig , Sadok El Ghoul , Omrane Guedhami , Xiaolan Zheng
Dividends and Economic Policy Uncertainty: International Evidence
85 Pages · Posted: 17 Dec 2018 · Last revised: 29 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 810
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Peterson K Ozili
Financial Reporting under Economic Policy Uncertainty
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, Forthcoming · 24 Pages · Posted: 6 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 189
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,486
RANK
382,931
2 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies