Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and Small Business Profitability

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 18-7

54 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2018 Last revised: 5 Jun 2020

Eric Holzman

Indiana University

Brian P. Miller

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

Brian Williams

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Teri Lombardi Yohn

Emory University Goizueta Business School

Date Written: June 1, 2020

Abstract

We exploit survey data from the Panel Study of Entrepreneurial Dynamics to investigate the role
of accounting in the likelihood that a small business more quickly achieves and maintains positive
operating cash flow (profitability). We examine several potential aspects of accounting including
the entrepreneur’s: 1) accounting background, 2) intent to use various financial statements and
projections, and 3) intent to use professional accountants. We find that entrepreneurs with an
accounting background are more likely to achieve profitability. Perhaps more importantly, we
document that the intended use of certain statements (e.g., income statements) and projections
(e.g., break-even analyses) are associated with small business profitability. However, these
statements and projections are only associated with future profitability for entrepreneurs with an
accounting background, suggesting that the benefits of these statements primarily accrue to
entrepreneurs who have an understanding of accounting. Consistent with this notion, we fail to
find evidence that the use of professional accountants is associated with small business
profitability. Combined, our evidence suggests various aspects of accounting are associated with
profitability in the largely unregulated environment where small businesses operate.

Keywords: small business; accounting background; financial statement preparation; profitability

Suggested Citation:

Holzman, Eric and Miller, Brian P. and Williams, Brian and Yohn, Teri Lombardi, Accounting and Small Business Profitability (June 1, 2020). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 18-7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3099220 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3099220
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
472
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,020
RANK
138,996
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies