Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Corporate Governance and Financial Parameters on Profitability of the BSE 100 Companies

The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XVI, No. 1, January 2017, pp. 7-26

Posted: 17 Jan 2018

Neha Kumar

Bundelkhand University

Parul Kumar

Maharaja Agrasen Institute of Management Studies

Sunil K. Gupta

Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU)

Dr. Raj Sharma

Bharati Vidyapeeth University - Institute of Management

Date Written: January 11, 2018

Abstract

Corporate Governance is an act or manner of governing a company. It aims at promoting fairness, transparency and accountability of an entity. This paper attempts to study the extent to which the BSE 100 listed firms are following the corporate governance guidelines that are mandatory for the firms to adopt. Also the effect of corporate governance on the profit, return on equity and return on capital employed of the company is analyzed for the year 2015. The paper also aims to study the impact of financial variables on the company’s profitability by way of stepwise regression analysis. The results of the study show that earnings per share, leverage, net worth, size of the company and share price are more or less the major factors that significantly impact the return and profit-earning capacity of any company. From the models, it is clear that with better corporate governance scores, firms can achieve greater returns on their capital invested. The results also state that 73% of the companies in the sample abide by all the regulations of the corporate governance. With the revision of corporate governance guidelines in terms of scope of independent directors, whistleblower policy, disclosure requirements and many more, other firms are also working towards achieving better scores and thus churning more profits.

Suggested Citation:

Kumar, Neha and Kumar, Parul and Gupta, Sunil K. and Sharma, Dr. Raj, Impact of Corporate Governance and Financial Parameters on Profitability of the BSE 100 Companies (January 11, 2018). The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XVI, No. 1, January 2017, pp. 7-26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3100052
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,040
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies