Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Board Gender Diversity Affect Corporate Cash Holdings?

Atif, M., Liu, B., and Huang, A. (2019). Does Board Gender Diversity Affect Corporate Cash Holdings? Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 12 Jan 2018 Last revised: 5 Jul 2019

Muhammad Atif

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance

Benjamin Liu

Griffith University - Department of Accounting, Finance and Economics

Allen Huang

Griffith University - Department of Accounting, Finance and Economics

Abstract

This paper examines whether board gender diversity affects corporate cash holdings using S&P 1,500 index firms in the US for the period 2006–2015. We document a significantly negative relationship between board gender diversity and cash holdings. We also find a strong negative effect of female independent directors consistent with monitoring function. Moreover, in accordance with the critical mass theory, we find a negative effect of female directors’ presence and voice on cash holdings. Our findings are robust to alternative econometric specifications, alternative measures of cash holdings and corporate governance, difference-in-differences, propensity score matching, and two-stage least squares. This study offers useful insights to the current global debate on gender diversity and its implications for firms.

Keywords: corporate governance, cash holdings, gender diversity

JEL Classification: G30, G34, J16

Suggested Citation:

Atif, Muhammad and Liu, Benjamin and Huang, Allen R., Does Board Gender Diversity Affect Corporate Cash Holdings?. Atif, M., Liu, B., and Huang, A. (2019). Does Board Gender Diversity Affect Corporate Cash Holdings? Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3100697
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
777
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies