Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adoption of Fair Value Accounting in Indian Accounting System

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVI, No. 1, January 2017, pp. 36-45

Posted: 17 Jan 2018

Debarshi Bhattacharya

University of Kalyani

Date Written: January 11, 2018

Abstract

Of the 14 countries that have adopted IFRS for at least some (but not all) domestic publicly accountable entities, India is one. Hence, India has finally adopted fair value measurement in its business reporting system. For the purpose of defining and measuring fair value in India, the ICAI has introduced converged Indian Accounting Standards in line with IFRS, Ind AS 113 on fair value measurement. Although Ind AS 113 defines fair value, sets out a single Ind AS framework for measuring fair value and requires disclosures about fair value measurements, it does not direct which assets and liabilities too are measured at fair value. Rather, Ind AS 113 is applicable when another Ind AS requires or permits fair value measurements or disclosures about fair value measurements. As per MCA’s notification dated 16.02.2015, the first financial reporting on the basis of converged ASs of Indian companies will be mandatorily prepared on March 31, 2017. Analysis of fair value measurement of assets and liabilities made by Indian companies can only be done after preparation of their financial statements for the year 2016-17. It will be interesting to see how Indian companies measure fair value of assets/liabilities, for which no active market exists, using significant unobservable inputs (i.e., Level 3 Inputs) as enumerated in the hierarchy of Ind AS 113.

Suggested Citation:

Bhattacharya, Debarshi, Adoption of Fair Value Accounting in Indian Accounting System (January 11, 2018). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVI, No. 1, January 2017, pp. 36-45, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3100046
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,448
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies