Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of the Corporate Governance Canon on Chinese Companies

Journal of Chinese Governance 4 (2019)

25 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2018 Last revised: 16 Feb 2020

Bryane Michael

University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law

Say Hak Goo

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Law

Date Written: November 1, 2016

Abstract

China has yet to import the corporate governance “canon” (generally accepted rules as promoting share holder value as well as minority shareholder and other stakeholders’ rights) into its Code of Corporate Governance. What effect would Chinese companies’ simply adopting such a canon -- as defined by Hong Kong or other foreign corporate governance practices -- have on their share prices? We look at Mainland Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong, looking at the way their share prices react to economic fluctuations when they have better or worse corporate governance practices. Using a differences-of-differences methodology, that such share prices could/would increase by around 7% -- increasing profits by about $330 billion. Yet, a significant part of the distribution of these companies loose money in the short-run. These results provide yet another confirmation that adopting the corporate governance canon can profit companies’ investors, but not all of them.

Keywords: Chinese corporate governance, differences-in-differences, post-crisis economics

JEL Classification: G34, N25, M14

Suggested Citation:

Michael, Bryane and Goo, Say Hak, The Value of the Corporate Governance Canon on Chinese Companies (November 1, 2016). Journal of Chinese Governance 4 (2019) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3101277 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3101277
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
Ben Amoako-Adu , Vishaal Baulkaran
The Effects of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Canadian Equivalent, Bill 198/CSA Rules, on Canadian Cross-Listed Stocks Posted: 2007
James Ang , Zhi-Qian Jiang , Chao-Peng Wu
Good Apples, Bad Apples: Sorting Among Chinese Companies Traded in the U
S. Journal of Business Ethics , volume 134 , issue 4 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Bai , Qiao Chong-En , Joe Liu , Frank Lu , Junxi Song , Zhang
Corporate Governance and Market Valuation in China
Journal of Comparative Economics , volume 32 , issue 4 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Randolph Beatty , Hai Lu , Wei Luo
The Market for "Lemons": A Study of Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism for Chinese Firms Listed in the US Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,723
RANK
609,870
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies