Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Corporate Governance Affect the Valuation of Spanish IPOs? The Role of Ownership Structure and the Board of Directors

Forthcoming, Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting

42 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2018

Susana Alvarez

Universidad de Oviedo - Business Administration

Félix J. López-Iturriaga

Universidad de Valladolid - Department of Finance and Accounting

Date Written: January 12, 2018

Abstract

We analyse the influence of the board of directors and ownership structure on the valuation of IPOs in the Spanish capital market during the period 1998-2013. After controlling for other influences such as the auditor’s reputation, the underwriter’s reputation and the level of information asymmetry, our results lend strong support for the hypothesis of the influence exerted by ownership concentration over the level of IPO underpricing. Moreover, we find a non-linear relationship between the proportion of shares in the IPO belonging to members of the board of directors and the level of underpricing. Other IPO and firm characteristics such as the size of the offer and its structure also prove to be statistically significant. Finally, we find that the market cycle influences the valuation of IPOs, as the relationship between the market return and the initial IPO return is positive and statistically significant.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Board of Directors, Ownership Structure, Pricing, IPOs (Initial Public Offerings)

JEL Classification: D73, G30, H11, H26

Suggested Citation:

Alvarez Otero, Susana and Lopez-Iturriaga, Felix Javier, Does Corporate Governance Affect the Valuation of Spanish IPOs? The Role of Ownership Structure and the Board of Directors (January 12, 2018). Forthcoming, Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3101053
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
I Abeysekera
The influence of board size on intellectual capital disclosure by Kenyan listed firms
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 504 - 518 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Abrahamson , A De Ridder
Allocation of shares to foreign and domestic investors: Firm and ownership characteristics in Swedish IPOs
Research in International Business and Finance , volume 34 , p. 52 - 65 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Á Acedo Ramírez , F J Ruiz Cabestre , R Santamaría Aquilué
Influence of IPO characteristics on liquidity
Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting / Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad , volume 40 , issue 151 , p. 417 - 437 Posted: 2011
I Acero , N Alcalde
Influencia de las funciones de control y asesoramiento sobre la configuración del consejo de administración
Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad , volume 41 , issue 153 , p. 9 - 38 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,719
RANK
344,140
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies