Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Progress and Update Report on Advisory Committee on Accounting Profession's (ACAP) Recommendations by the PCAOB's Investor Advisory Board's Working Group

143 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2018 Last revised: 18 Feb 2018

Mary Bersot

Bersot Capital Management

Grant Callery

Oversight and Governance Solutions

Joseph V. Carcello

University of Tennessee

Parveen P. Gupta

Lehigh University - Department of Accounting

Norman Harrison

FTI Consulting, Inc. - FTI Consulting, New York

Bess Joffee

Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association College Retirement Equities Fund (TIAA-CREF)

Damon Silvers

American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO)

Lynn E. Turner

Independent

Date Written: October 27, 2016

Abstract

In May 2007, Secretary of the Treasury, Henry M. Paulson announced the Department of Treasury was establishing the Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession (ACAP) to consider and develop recommendations relating to the sustainability of the auditing profession. The Advisory Committee was comprised of 21 members. The members included a former Federal Reserve Chairman, a former Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chairman, former SEC Chief Accountants, attorneys, auditors, corporate board members, businesspersons, and representatives of investors. The ACAP held numerous meetings and public hearings during 2007 and 2008. ACAP considered both, oral and written submissions in its deliberations. It published and exposed a draft report for comments. On October 6, 2008, the ACAP issued its final report and recommendations. Those recommendations were directed to various organizations: the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), the American Accounting Association (AAA), and the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA). The charge of our Working Group was to document and provide commentary on the degree of progress made to date on each of the ACAP recommendations contained in its Final Report issued on October 6, 2008. The Committee offered thirty-one recommendations in three key areas: (1) Human Capital, (2) Firm Structure and Finances, and (3) Concentration and Competition. To deliver on its mandate, our Working Group adopted a two-pronged approach to gather information. One, we conducted our own research from publicly available sources. Two, we sent letters to NABA, PCAOB, U.S. Department of Treasury, AICPA, AAA and the SEC soliciting their response to document the progress that each has made on recommendations applicable to them. This technical report is the outcome of this research.

Keywords: ACAP, PCAOB, Human Capital, CPA Firm Structure and Finances, CPA Firm Concentration and Competition, Investory Advisory Group

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Bersot, Mary and Callery, Grant and Carcello, Joseph V. and Gupta, Parveen P. and Harrison, Norman and Joffee, Bess and Silvers, Damon and Turner, Lynn E., Progress and Update Report on Advisory Committee on Accounting Profession's (ACAP) Recommendations by the PCAOB's Investor Advisory Board's Working Group (October 27, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3101029 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3101029
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Audit Quality
Notice of Intent to Establish Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession, 72 Fed
CAQ Resource: Audit Quality Reporting , volume 33560 Posted: 2007-05-17
J Franzel
Auditor Objectivity and Skepticism -What's Next? Posted: 2013-08-05
J Franzel
A decade after Sarbanes-Oxley: The need for ongoing vigilance, monitoring, and research. Accounting Horizons , volume 28 , p. 917 - 930 Posted: 2014
Crossref
J Franzel
The PCAOB's interests in and use of auditing research
General Accounting Office Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,053
RANK
649,230
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies