Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bridging the Gap: Evidence from Externally Hired CEOs

81 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2018

Yonca Ertimur

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Caleb Rawson

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Jonathan L. Rogers

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Sarah L. C. Zechman

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 12, 2018

Abstract

We investigate executive employment gaps (hereafter, gaps) between the appointment of an external CEO at a public firm and the individual’s prior executive position at a public company. These gaps cannot be reliably obtained from common databases. We hand collect data for externally hired CEOs at public companies from 1992-2014. These CEOs represent approximately 40% of the 5,095 CEO successions and have a mean gap of 1.9 years. The gap increases to 3.2 years for the subset of new hires with a gap. We hypothesize that labor market frictions and executive skillsets contribute to the existence and length of these gaps. Using theories from labor economics, we predict (equilibrium) associations between two measures of “fit” (executive compensation and long-term match quality) and gaps (both existence and length). Finally, we provide descriptive evidence on what executives do (e.g., sit on boards, work for private consulting companies, or consume leisure) during their gaps. This project was subject to and published through a registered report process. Any tests that were not included in the accepted proposal are marked as unplanned analyses.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, CEO Compensation, CEO Turnover, Employment Gaps

JEL Classification: J64, M12, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ertimur, Yonca and Rawson, Caleb and Rogers, Jonathan L. and Zechman, Sarah L. C., Bridging the Gap: Evidence from Externally Hired CEOs (January 12, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3101154 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3101154
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J T Addison , P Portugal
Job displacement, relative wage changes, and duration of unemployment
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 281 - 302 Posted: 1989
Crossref
S Allgood , K A Farrell
The match between CEO and firm
Journal of Business , volume 76 , issue 2 , p. 317 - 341 Posted: 2003
Crossref
G M Anderson , T Bamford , J H Duam , B Richard
Succession planning for the board. Spencer Stuart Point of View , p. 14 - 19 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,195
RANK
226,777
32 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies