Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Conservatism and Banking Expertise on Board of Directors

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2018 Last revised: 27 Dec 2019

Tri Tri Nguyen

University of Roehampton; University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam

Chau Minh Duong

Canterbury Christ Church University

Nguyet Nguyen

University of Portsmouth

Hung Bui

Ho Chi Minh City University of Economics and Finance

Date Written: October 20, 2019

Abstract

Previous studies show mixed evidence of the role of banking expertise on the board of directors on accounting conservatism. In this paper, we add to this growing literature by providing an innovative way to measure banking expertise based on life-time working history in banks of all individual directors on the board. We find that accounting conservatism is negatively affected by banking expertise on the board. Also, the results indicate that banking expertise on the board has a more pronounced impact on accounting conservatism when firms have high bankruptcy risk and when firms have high financial leverage. The evidence has some implications for boards of directors.

Keywords: Accounting Conservatism, Banking Expertise, Boards of Directors

JEL Classification: G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Tri Tri and Duong, Chau Minh and Nguyen, Nguyet and Bui, Hung, Accounting Conservatism and Banking Expertise on Board of Directors (October 20, 2019). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3101495 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3101495
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Tri Tri Nguyen , Chau Minh Duong , Nguyet Nguyen
Is conditional conservatism a source of deviations of financial statements from Benford’s Law?
41 Pages · Posted: 5 Jun 2020 · Last revised: 22 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 76
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,310
RANK
350,629
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies