Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Executive Personality Using Machine-Learning Algorithms: A New Approach and Audit Fee-Based Validation Tests

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Vol. 47, No. 3-4, pp. 519-544, 2020

Posted: 17 Jan 2018 Last revised: 8 May 2020

Karel Hrazdil

Simon Fraser University

Jiri Novak

Institute of Economic Studies, Faculty of Social Sciences, Charles University in Prague, Czech Republic

Rafael Rogo

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Christine I. Wiedman

University of Waterloo

Ray Zhang

Simon Fraser University - Beedie School of Business

Date Written: September 9, 2019

Abstract

We present a novel approach for measuring executive personality traits. Relying on recent developments in machine learning and artificial intelligence, we utilize the IBM Watson Personality Insights service to measure executive personalities based on CEOs’ and CFOs’ responses to questions raised by analysts during conference calls. We obtain the Big Five personality traits – openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness and neuroticism – based on which we estimate risk tolerance. To validate these traits, we first demonstrate that our risk-tolerance measure varies with existing inherent and behavioural-based measures (gender, age, sensitivity
of executive compensation to stock return volatility, and executive unexercised-vested options) in predictable ways. Second, we show that variation in firm-year level personality trait measures, including risk tolerance, is largely explained by manager characteristics, as opposed to firm characteristics and firm performance. Finally, we find that executive inherent risk tolerance helps explain the positive relationship between client risk and audit fees documented in the prior literature. Specifically, the effect of CEO risk-tolerance – as an innate personality trait – on audit fees is incremental to the effect of increased risk appetite from equity risk-taking incentives (Vega).
Measuring executive personality using machine-learning algorithms will thus allow researchers to pursue studies that were previously difficult to conduct.

Keywords: Personality, Big Five, Machine Learning, Risk, Audit Fees

JEL Classification: G41, G30, M12, M42

Suggested Citation:

Hrazdil, Karel and Novak, Jiri and Rogo, Rafael and Wiedman, Christine I. and Zhang, Ray, Measuring Executive Personality Using Machine-Learning Algorithms: A New Approach and Audit Fee-Based Validation Tests (September 9, 2019). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Vol. 47, No. 3-4, pp. 519-544, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3101500 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3101500
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,748
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies