Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Foreign Experience and Corporate Innovation

Journal of Corporate Finance, Vol. 48, 2018

57 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2018

Rongli Yuan

Renmin University of China

Wen Wen

Renmin University of China

Date Written: December 8, 2017

Abstract

This study examines the impact of managerial foreign experience on corporate innovation using manually collected data of Chinese listed companies. We find that managerial foreign experience is positively associated with corporate innovation. This association is robust to a series of robustness checks, including the use of Heckman two-step sample selection model, propensity score matching procedure, and the market reaction to the appointing announcements of managers with foreign experience. Further analyses indicate that senior managers with foreign experience have a more significant impact on corporate innovation than junior managers with foreign experience; both foreign study experience and foreign work experience have important impacts on corporate innovation; managers with foreign experience in private enterprises have more initiatives to innovate than in state-owned enterprises; and managers who gain foreign experience in the United States tend to be more influential and innovative than those who have foreign experience from other countries or regions. Overall, our results suggest that managerial foreign experience matters for corporate innovation in emerging markets.

Keywords: Managerial foreign experience; Corporate innovation; Eyeball effect

JEL Classification: G34; O31

Suggested Citation:

Yuan, Rongli and Wen, Wen, Managerial Foreign Experience and Corporate Innovation (December 8, 2017). Journal of Corporate Finance, Vol. 48, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3102856
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
P Aghion , J Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
Am. Econ. Rev , volume 103 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Baer
Putting creativity to work: The implementation of creative ideas in organizations
Acad. Manag. J , volume 55 , p. 1102 - 1119 Posted: 2012
Crossref
F L Bereskin , P H Hsu
Bringing in changes: The effect of new CEOs on innovation Posted: 2014
S Bernstein
Does going public affect innovation?
J. Financ , volume 70 , p. 1365 - 1403 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,536
RANK
436,820
32 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies