Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management Preferences of Family Firms and Its Impact on the Market Value of the Firm

35 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2018 Last revised: 7 Feb 2018

Suhas M. Avabruth

Xavier Institute of Management

Palanisamy Saravanan

Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Tiruchirappalli

Date Written: January 15, 2018

Abstract

In this paper we analyze the preference for earnings management techniques by the family firms and the impact of the same on the performance of the firm. Family firms contrary to non-family firms are driven by different objectives. Using socio emotional wealth theory, we hypothesize that family firms prefer an earnings management technique, which is less risky in the long term. Using the publicly available data on all the family firms listed on Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE), our analysis indicates prevalence both accrual based and real activity earnings management among Indian family firms. However, revenue based real activity earnings management was preferred by those family firms that have exhausted the possibility of accrual based earnings management. Our analysis of the impact of earnings management choice on market value indicates a short-term positive impact of the accrual based earnings management. Revenue based real activity earnings management was found to have long term positive impact but the cost based real activity earnings management had a long term negative impact on the value of the market value of the firm.

Keywords: Earnings Management, REM, AEM, Family Business

JEL Classification: M41, M40

Suggested Citation:

Avabruth, Suhas M. and Saravanan, Palanisamy, Earnings Management Preferences of Family Firms and Its Impact on the Market Value of the Firm (January 15, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3102030 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3102030
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Mahdi Salehi , Mahsa Hoshmand , Hossein Rezaei Ranjbar
The effect of earnings management on the reputation of family and non-family firms
Journal of Family Business Management , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 128 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,798
RANK
255,414
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies