Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Disclosure Transparency and Employee Wages

The Financial Review, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2018 Last revised: 7 Jun 2022

John (Jianqiu) Bai

Northeastern University (USA) - D’Amore-McKim School of Business

Matthew Serfling

University of Tennessee; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Sarah Shaikh

University of Washington - Department of Accounting; University of Washington - Department of Accounting; University of Washington - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 7, 2022

Abstract

We test the hypothesis that less transparent financial disclosures are an undesirable firm attribute that increase the amount of information and unemployment risk that employees bear, resulting in a wage premium. Using establishment-level wage data from the U.S. Census Bureau, we document that firms with less transparent disclosures pay their employees more, especially when employees bear greater information acquisition costs, have more influence in the wage-setting process, and own more stock. Our results hold after utilizing instrumental variables and exploiting two quasi-natural experiments. Overall, our results suggest that disclosure choices can generate externalities on an important group of stakeholders.

Keywords: Transparency, Disclosures, Employee Wages, Management Forecasts, Readability

JEL Classification: M40, M41, J31

Suggested Citation:

Bai, John (Jianqiu) and Serfling, Matthew and Shaikh, Sarah, Financial Disclosure Transparency and Employee Wages (June 7, 2022). The Financial Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3103237 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3103237
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
A K Agrawal , D A Matsa
Labor unemployment risk and corporate financing decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , p. 449 - 470 Posted: 2013
B Ajinka , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
A Albuquerque , J L Zhu
Has Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act discouraged corporate investment? New evidence from a natural experiment
Management Science , volume 65 , p. 3423 - 3446 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
685
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,504
RANK
87,004
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies