Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Protection of Proprietary Information and Financial Reporting Opacity: Evidence from a Natural Experiment

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

Posted: 17 Jan 2018 Last revised: 9 Dec 2020

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Xiaohua Fang

Florida Atlantic University

Wenjun Zhang

Dalhousie University

Date Written: April 15, 2020

Abstract

We utilize the staggered adoption of the Inevitable Disclosure Doctrine (IDD) by U.S. state courts as an exogenous shock to the proprietary costs of disclosure and study the impact of the IDD on corporate financial reporting policy. We find compelling evidence that firms headquartered in states that adopt the IDD exhibit a significant increase in financial reporting opacity relative to firms headquartered in states that fail to adopt the IDD. Our finding is robust to a battery of sensitivity tests. Cross-sectional evidence shows that the impact of the IDD on opacity is more pronounced for firms with weak external monitoring. Further, our path analysis shows that financial reporting opacity engendered by the adoption of IDD had broad negative consequences for capital market investors.

Keywords: proprietary information; corporate financial reporting policy; natural experiment

JEL Classification: G34; K31; M41; P23

Suggested Citation:

Callen, Jeffrey L. and Fang, Xiaohua and Zhang, Wenjun, Protection of Proprietary Information and Financial Reporting Opacity: Evidence from a Natural Experiment (April 15, 2020). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3103689
 Not Available for Download
0 References
1 Citations
Xin Liu , Xiaoran Ni
Key Talent Outflow and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from the Rejection of the Inevitable Disclosure Doctrine
48 Pages · Posted: 11 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 10 Apr 2021 · Downloads: 432
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,613
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies