Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shielding from Political Corruption and the Choice between Public and Private Debt: Theory and Evidence

2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

Posted: 17 Jan 2018 Last revised: 29 May 2025

Albert Mensah

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Cheong Yi

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: January 16, 2018

Abstract

Based on a simple model of debt choice, we investigate how firms increase their leverage when they face high expropriation risk. Due to timely observability of public debt, we find that firms choose public over private debt when public corruption surges, suggesting that public debt is useful in deterring a corrupt public official’s potential expropriation. Cross-sectional variation tests reveal that firms’ shielding behavior tends to be stronger for firms with enormous resources, and those having external and internal governance mechanisms in place. The results are robust to the use of alternative specifications and proxies, accounting for potentially omitted state-level confounds, and the use of instrumental variable analysis, propensity score matching estimation and a quasi-natural experiment based on high-profile corruption-related political scandals. Our study is incremental to literature on the determinants of debt choice, public debt as a communication device, and corporate disclosure relating to debt.

Keywords: Political Corruption, Corporate Disclosure, Public and Private Debt

JEL Classification: G31, G32, G38, D72

Suggested Citation:

Mensah, Albert and Yi, Cheong, Shielding from Political Corruption and the Choice between Public and Private Debt: Theory and Evidence (January 16, 2018). 2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3103481 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3103481
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,686
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies