Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Burden of Attention: CEO Publicity and Tax Avoidance

Journal of Business Research, Forthcoming

33 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2018 Last revised: 22 Feb 2018

Tinghua Duan

EDHEC Business School

Rong Ding

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

Wenxuan Hou

University of Edinburgh - Business School

John Ziyang Zhang

University of Liverpool

Date Written: December 29, 2017

Abstract

We use search volume index (SVI) for a CEO’s name and stock ticker from Google Trends to measure CEO publicity, and examine the competing hypotheses on its relation to tax avoidance. On the one hand, CEOs who receive more attention from retail investors may engage in tax evasion activities to meet investors’ performance expectations; on the other hand, they are more concerned with public image and avoiding being labeled as tax avoiders. Based on the CEOs of S&P 500 firms between 2004 and 2011, our finding supports the former and shows that CEOs with higher publicity manage to have a lower effective tax rate and cash effective tax rate. Such effect is moderated by board independence. Finally, firms with higher CEO publicity pay auditors higher tax fees, suggesting that these CEOs tend to use more tax planning services from auditors.

Keywords: CEO Publicity; CEOs; Tax Rate; Google Trends; Search Volume Index; Tax Avoidance

JEL Classification: G30; H26

Suggested Citation:

Duan, Tinghua and Ding, Rong and Hou, Wenxuan and Zhang, John, The Burden of Attention: CEO Publicity and Tax Avoidance (December 29, 2017). Journal of Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3103947
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
C Armstrong , J Blouin , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Crossref
C Armstrong , J Blouin , D Larcker
Incentive for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
B O K Baik , D B Farber , S S Lee
CEO ability and management earnings forecasts
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 5 , p. 1645 - 1668 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Bertrand , A Schoar
Managing with style: the effect of managers on firm policies
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , p. 1169 - 1208 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,717
RANK
266,546
9 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies