Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Acceleration Effect of Intangibles in the Recovery of Corporate Performance After-Crisis

Research in International Business and Finance 42 (2017) 1115–1122

Posted: 30 Sep 2021

Ángel Barajas

University of Vigo - Faculty of Business Administration and Tourism; affiliation not provided to SSRN

Elena Shakina

National Research University Higher School of Economics (Moscow)

Carlos M. Fernández-Jardón

University of Vigo - Departamento de Economia Aplicada

Date Written: July 8, 2017

Abstract

This study explores the recovery in the Market Value Added (MVA) of European companies after the recent global economic crisis in 2008–2009. It introduces empirical evidence that intangible-intensive strategy in human and relational capital reinforces speed of the after-crisis correction for companies. Based on a panel dataset of more than 1600 listed corporations this research aims to discover drivers of Market Value Added trends in 2011–2013. The established results con-tribute to the understanding of the advantages that companies can exploit for the recovery after systematic shocks of markets. Our study demonstrates that intangible-intensive strategy not al-ways enabled faster recovery speed. Meanwhile, it provided year-to-year acceleration of MVA growth after crisis.

Keywords: Intangibles, Crisis, Recovery, Strategy, Corporate performance, Market value added (MVA)

Suggested Citation:

Barajas, Ángel and Shakina, Elena and Fernández-Jardón, Carlos M., Acceleration Effect of Intangibles in the Recovery of Corporate Performance After-Crisis (July 8, 2017). Research in International Business and Finance 42 (2017) 1115–1122, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3104412
 Not Available for Download
30 References
S H Appelbaum , R Calla , D Desautels , L Hasan
The challenges of organizational agility (part 1)
Ind. Commer. Train , volume 49 , p. 6 - 14 Posted: 2017
S H Appelbaum , R Calla , D Desautels , L N Hasan
The challenges of organizational agility: part 2
Ind. Commer. Train , volume 49 , p. 69 - 74 Posted: 2017
D Archibugi , A Filippetti , M Frenz
Economic crisis and innovation: is destruction prevailing over accumulation? Res
Policy , volume 42 , p. 303 - 314 Posted: 2013
N C Brown , M D Kimbrough
Intangible investment and the importance of firm-specific factors in the determination of earnings
Rev. Account. Stud , volume 16 , p. 539 - 573 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
244
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies