Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO International Experience and Foreign IPOs

Economic Modelling, Forthcoming

36 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2018 Last revised: 7 Jan 2020

Tinghua Duan

EDHEC Business School

Wenxuan Hou

University of Edinburgh - Business School

Bill Rees

University of Edinburgh - Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 30, 9

Abstract

This paper examines listing location as a managerial decision by using a sample of IPOs of Chinese entrepreneurial firms in mainland China, the United States and Hong Kong. We find that Chinese entrepreneurial firms managed by CEOs with international experience are more likely to undertake foreign IPOs, especially those returned from countries with more advanced legal institutions and those operating in high-tech industries. The credibility crisis for Chinese firms in 2010 switched the focus of foreign IPOs from the US to Hong Kong. These results are consistent across returnee CFOs and other senior executives with international experience.

Keywords: China, CEO, CFO, Returnee, Cross-Border IPOs, Entrepreneurial Firms, IPO Initial Returns, High Tech Industries

JEL Classification: L21, F23, G34, L26, M12

Suggested Citation:

Duan, Tinghua and Hou, Wenxuan and Rees, William, CEO International Experience and Foreign IPOs (November 30, 9). Economic Modelling, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3104098 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3104098
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
J An , T Duan , W Hou , X Liu
Legal Enforcements and Institutional Transition of Chinese Entrepreneurial firms: Evidence from Returnee CEOs Posted: 2017
D J Cumming , A Knill , N Richardson
Firm Size, Institutional Quality and the Impact of Securities Regulation
Journal of Comparative Economics , volume 43 , issue 2 , p. 417 - 442 Posted: 2015
Crossref
C M Daily , S T Certo , D R Dalton
Investment bankers and IPO pricing: does prospectus information matter
Journal of Business Venturing , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 93 - 111 Posted: 2005
Crossref
D R Dalton , C M Daily , J L Johnson , A E Ellstrand
Number of directors and financial performance: A meta-analysis
Academy of Management Journal , volume 42 , issue 6 , p. 674 - 686 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,041
RANK
527,931
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies