Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Configurational Approach for Exploring Corporate Governance Practices and Firm Performance in Different Organizational Life Cycles

28 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2018

Hala Amin

The German University in Cairo - Faculty of Management Technology

Ehab K. A. Mohamed

The German University in Cairo - Faculty of Management Technology

Mostaq M. Hussain

UNBSJ

Date Written: January 17, 2018

Abstract

This study explores corporate governance practices in different organizational life cycles that can lead firms’ better performance. We propose a configurational approach to explore how different causal conditional effects are interdependent in explaining firms’ performance. Using fuzzy-set qualitative comparative analysis, we find that no single causal condition is sufficient for firms achieving high performance. Instead ownership structure and the role of board of directors (in combination with country specific factors’ strength of formal institutions) configurational conditions that lead firms’ higher performance amongst different organizational life cycles. Moreover, the causal factors configure in different ways for firms growth, maturity and declining trends. This study demonstrates the value of using a configurational analytical approach to explore both the firm and country specific corporate governance practices (together) that engage firms to achieve the desired level of performance.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Life Cycles, Firms, Performance, Configurational Approach

JEL Classification: M41, M14, M19

Suggested Citation:

Amin, Hala and Mohamed, Ehab K. A. and Hussain, Mostaq M., A Configurational Approach for Exploring Corporate Governance Practices and Firm Performance in Different Organizational Life Cycles (January 17, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3104226 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3104226
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
The cross-national diversity of corporate governance: Dimensions and determinants
The Academy of Management Review , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R V Aguilera , I Filatotchev , H Gospel , G Jackson
An organizational approach to comparative corporate governance: Costs, contingencies, and complementarities
Organization science , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 475 - 492 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M Aoki
Toward a comparative institutional analysis Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,358
RANK
345,746
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies