Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Home Capital Group - The High Cost of Dishonesty

Accounting Perspectives, Forthcoming

24 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2018 Last revised: 25 Apr 2018

Kareen Brown

Brock University - Goodman School of Business

Kevin J. Veenstra

McMaster University - DeGroote School of Business

Date Written: January 19, 2018

Abstract

This instructional case presents the problems that began in the summer of 2015 when Home Capital Group (HCG) announced it had cut ties with 45 mortgage brokers for falsifying figures on mortgage applications regarding the earnings of prospective home purchasers in Canada. The case details the subsequent investigation by the Ontario Securities Commission in 2017 that resulted in a run on the bank and consequent efforts by HCG to stay afloat. While emphasizing the importance of strong corporate governance and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives, this case also stresses the influence of various stakeholders including short-sellers, regulators, shareholders, management, depositors, and customers in the evolution of subsequent events. As a whole, this case provides an interesting context for the discussion of stock market efficiency.

Keywords: corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, accounting theory, banking

JEL Classification: G01, G14, G18, G21, G32, M14

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Kareen and Veenstra, Kevin J., Home Capital Group - The High Cost of Dishonesty (January 19, 2018). Accounting Perspectives, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3105310 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3105310
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
do you think the market is efficient? Why/why not? 2. At its peak, approximately 60% of HCG's shares were shorted, a very high number by any comparison. How does a 60% short position compare with other publicly traded companies? How can so many shares be shorted? Can shareholders who are "long" a stock prevent their broker from "lending" their shares to short-sellers? The short position in HCG decreased significantly from
Based on your observations Posted: 2017-07
Marc Cohodes , U S
is considered to have played a pivotal role in the fear-mongering that brought HCG "to its knees". In a nutshell, Cohodes used the OSC lawsuit coupled with Kathleen Wynne's decision to implement a foreign buyer tax in Ontario to cool the housing market as support for his assertion that HCG shares are worthless. Some see Cohodes as a villain, others as a hero. What is your opinion? If a villain
Why do you think HCG's board of directors accepted Buffett's offer and not others, which included out-right sale of the company, piece-meal sale of various assets, etc.? Why do you think none of Canada's big banks made an offer for HCG? For information on other offers received and management rationale for supporting the Buffett deal, please refer to Home Capital Posted: 2017-09-12
Marc Cohodes
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,724
RANK
538,134
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies