Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Event Study Method in Logistics Research: Overview and a Critical Analysis

Wood, L. C., & Wang, J. X. (2018). The event study method in logistics research: Overview and a critical analysis. International Journal of Applied Logistics, 8(1), 57-79.

21 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2018

Lincoln Wood

University of Otago - Department of Management; Curtin University - School of Information Systems

Jason Wang

University of Otago - Department of Management

Date Written: January 18, 2018

Abstract

Logistics researchers often want to understand how particular management changes or external factors influence a firm. While this can be accomplished using operational or survey data, we outline an alternative approach using the event study method where inferences are made with the estimated magnitude and direction of abnormal returns. The calculated abnormal returns can be used as a dependent variable in a cross-sectional regression to understand which managerial decisions may affect these outcomes. As the method remains little used by logistics researchers, we outline key assumptions and design considerations. We review recent articles and provide suggestions for logistics researchers improve the rigor of their research designs. This article aims to provide an overview of the method for logistics and supply chain researchers with a focus on developing the capability to design an effective study and to evaluate research articles to assess methodological weaknesses that may lead to untrustworthy results.

Keywords: event study, logistics research, research methods, literature review

Suggested Citation:

Wood, Lincoln and Wang, Jason, The Event Study Method in Logistics Research: Overview and a Critical Analysis (January 18, 2018). Wood, L. C., & Wang, J. X. (2018). The event study method in logistics research: Overview and a critical analysis. International Journal of Applied Logistics, 8(1), 57-79., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3105082
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
A Ataullah , X Song , M Tippett
A modified Corrado test for assessing abnormal security returns
The European Journal of Finance , volume 17 , issue 7 , p. 589 - 601 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S Ba , L L Lisic , Q Liu , J Stallaert
Stock market reaction to green vehicle innovation , volume 22 , p. 976 - 990 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M J Barclay , R H Litzenberger
Announcement effects of new equity issues and the use of intraday price data
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 90032 - 90035 Posted: 1988
Crossref
V L Bernard
Cross-sectional dependence and problems in inference in market-based accounting research
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 48 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,645
RANK
292,443
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies