Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do the SEC Whistleblower Provisions of Dodd Frank Deter Aggressive Financial Reporting?

57 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2018 Last revised: 4 Mar 2020

Christine I. Wiedman

University of Waterloo

Chunmei Zhu

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 24, 2020

Abstract

The stated goal of the 2011 SEC Whistleblower (WB) Program introduced as part of the Dodd-Frank Act was to strengthen investor protection through greater deterrence of securities law violations and more effective regulatory enforcement. While the SEC has articulated the success of the program for detecting and prosecuting violations, there is no evidence on the effect of the program in deterring violations. In this paper, we consider the deterrent effect by examining the impact of the Program on aggressive financial reporting by U.S. firms. Despite ongoing challenges, including the high number of tips received, efforts by some managers to circumvent the new rules by muzzling whistleblowers, and potential unintended consequences of the incentives provided, we document a significant reduction in abnormal accruals following the introduction of the regulation. We observe reductions for both positive and negative abnormal accruals as well as for extreme abnormal accruals. We also predict that firms with weaker internal compliance and reporting program quality are more likely to change their reporting behavior as employees of these firms are more likely to report irregularities directly to the SEC rather than internally. Using two different proxies for the quality of a firm’s internal compliance and reporting program – ratings of a firm’s program as described in its Code of Ethics, and estimated program quality based on disclosures of ineffective whistleblower program controls under Sarbanes Oxley – we find that reductions in aggressive reporting are greater for firms with weaker internal programs. Collectively, these findings provide important large-sample evidence of significant benefits of the SEC WB Program of Dodd-Frank Act for deterring financial reporting fraud, and of the efficacy of bounty-type whistleblower programs, more generally.

Keywords: Whistleblower, Dodd Frank, Fraud, Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: M41, G18

Suggested Citation:

Wiedman, Christine I. and Zhu, Chunmei, Do the SEC Whistleblower Provisions of Dodd Frank Deter Aggressive Financial Reporting? (February 24, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3105521 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3105521
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
Crossref
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: a multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
Crossref
D Amiram , E Bozanic , Rouen
Financial statement errors: evidence from the distributional properties of financial statement numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , p. 1540 - 1593 Posted: 2015
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , Jr , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
9 Citations
D. Jordan Lowe , Philip M. J. Reckers
The Deterrence Effects of Whistleblowing Provisions, Corporate Governance Culture, and Machiavellianism
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 45 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Theo Nyreröd , Giancarlo Spagnolo
A fresh look at whistleblower rewards
Journal of Governance and Regulation , volume 10 , issue 4, special issue , p. 248 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Stephen Stubben , Kyle Welch
Evidence on the Use and Efficacy of Internal Whistleblowing Systems
59 Pages · Posted: 29 Oct 2018 · Last revised: 31 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 4,938
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Paolo Buccirossi , Giovanni Immordino , Giancarlo Spagnolo
Whistleblower rewards, false reports, and corporate fraud
European Journal of Law and Economics , volume 51 , issue 3 , p. 411 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
560
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,276
RANK
112,757
9 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies