Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Post-Crisis Regulatory Reform in Banking: Address Insolvency Risk, Not Illiquidity!

19 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2018

Anjan V. Thakor

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School; Financial Theory Group; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Laboratory for Financial Engineering

Date Written: January 20, 2018

Abstract

An extensive review of the evidence related to the 2007-09 crisis reveals that it was an insolvency risk crisis, not a liquidity crisis. The appropriate post-crisis regulatory reform should therefore focus on increasing capital requirements. The Basel III liquidity requirements do not serve a useful economic purpose in dealing with the root causes of the stresses that led to the 2007-09 crisis, and unnecessarily constrain the asset transformation and liquidity creation roles of banks to the detriment of economic growth.

Keywords: liquidity risk, insolvency risk, post-crisis regulatory reform

JEL Classification: G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Thakor, Anjan V., Post-Crisis Regulatory Reform in Banking: Address Insolvency Risk, Not Illiquidity! (January 20, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3106055 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3106055
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Malcolm Baker , Jeffrey Wurgler
Do Strict Capital Requirements Raise the Cost of Capital? Bank Regulation, Capital Structure, and the Low Risk Anomaly
American Economic Review (P&P) , volume 105 , issue 5 , p. 315 - 320 Posted: 2015
Crossref
João Barroso , Rodrigo Gonzalez , Bernardus F Nazar Van Doornik
Credit Supply Responses to Reserve Requirement: Loan-Level Evidence from Macroprudential Policy Posted: 2017
Andrea Beltratti , René Stulz
The Credit Crisis Around the Globe: Why Did Some Banks Perform Better?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Allen Berger , Christa Bouwman
Bank Liquidity Creation
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 9 , p. 3779 - 3837 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,974
RANK
319,999
19 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies