Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are CEOS More Likely to Be First-Borns?

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP12613

43 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2018

Claudia Custodio

Imperial College London; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Stephan Siegel

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business; CESifo

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 2018

Abstract

We investigate the link between birth order and the career outcome of becoming Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of a company. We find that CEOs are more likely to be the first-born, i.e., oldest, child of their family. This result holds for family firms, where traditionally the oldest child is appointed to run the family business, but also for non-family firms. We also find that CEOs are significantly less likely to have older brothers (relative to younger brothers) than older sisters (relative to younger sisters). The advantage of being first-born seems to decay over time, consistent with changing family structures and rearing practices as well as changing social norms.

Keywords: birth order, CEO, family firm, first born, rearing environment, upbringing

Suggested Citation:

Custodio, Claudia and Siegel, Stephan, Are CEOS More Likely to Be First-Borns? (January 2018). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP12613, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3106817
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
6 References
Duchin Dittmar
Looking in the rearview mirror: The effect of managers' professional experience on corporate financial policy
Review of Financial Studies , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 565 - 602 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Drucker
The Effective Executive Posted: 1967
Grossman Eckel
Men, women and risk aversion: Experimental evidence, in Handbook of Experimental Economics Results , p. 1061 - 1073 Posted: 2008
Marchica Faccio , Mura
CEO gender, corporate risk-taking, and the efficiency of capital allocation
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 39 , p. 193 - 209 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,880
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies