Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Revising the National Codes of Corporate Governance Matter? An Empirical Study on Worldwide Evidences

30 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2018

Ooi Chai-Aun

Universiti Sains Malaysia (USM) - School of Management

Chee-Wooi Hooy

Universiti Sains Malaysia (USM) - School of Management

Abdul Zulkafli

Universiti Sains Malaysia (USM) - School of Management

Date Written: January 23, 2016

Abstract

Majority of the national codes of corporate governance have been undergone several revisions. Literature lacks of empirical evidences to show the effectiveness of progressive code revisions, while the majority only focuses on the effect of a specific code revision. This study fills the research gap using worldwide evidences from 35 countries, covering 2007-2014. This study shows that higher cumulative number of code revisions significantly improves the relationship between corporate governance score and firm value. However, increasing number of new practices released from each revision gives a significant negative effect to the relationship, especially on increasing board function new practices. Additional analysis reveals that capital market pressures matter to the effectiveness of code revisions, and the market specifically puts pressure to the compliance with the new practices on board structure, compensation and shareholder right protection, rather than board function. Lastly, this study reveals the effectiveness of code revisions between developed and developing countries.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Code, Revisions, Firm value, Effectiveness, Cross-country study

JEL Classification: G38, G32

Suggested Citation:

Chai-Aun, Ooi and Hooy, Chee-Wooi and Zulkafli, Abdul, Does Revising the National Codes of Corporate Governance Matter? An Empirical Study on Worldwide Evidences (January 23, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3107639 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3107639
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
R V Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of good governance worldwide: what's the trigger? Organization Studies , volume 25 , p. 417 - 446 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R V Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazarra
Codes of corporate governance
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 376 - 387 Posted: 2009
Crossref
D Akkermans , H Van Ees , N Hermes , R Hooghiemstra , G Van Der Laan , T Postma , A Van Witteloostuijn
Corporate governance in the Netherlands: An overview of the application of the Tabaksblat Code
Corporate Governance , volume 15 , issue 6 , p. 1106 - 1118 Posted: 2004
Crossref
N Ananchotikul , R Kouwenberg , V Phunnarungsi
Do firms decouple corporate governance policy and practice?
European Financial Management , volume 16 , issue 5 , p. 712 - 737 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,404
RANK
697,608
1 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies