Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEOs’ Great Chinese Famine Experience and Accounting Conservatism: Evidence from China

Asian Finance Association (AsianFA) 2018 Conference

51 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2018

Jun Hu

Jinan University - Management School

Wenbin Long

Guangdong University of Foreign Studies

Gary Gang Tian

Macquarie University - Department of Applied Finance and Actuarial Studies; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Troy Yao

Department of Accounting, Finance and Economics, Griffith Business School, Griffith University

Date Written: December 1, 2017

Abstract

This paper intends to link CEOs’ adverse early-life experiences to accounting policy choice, by investigating whether a CEO’s Great Chinese Famine experience impacted on corporate accounting conservatism. Our results show that companies whose CEOs had famine experience in their early life used more conservative accounting. We also find that the positive association between the CEO’s famine experience and accounting conservatism is moderated by firm ownership structure and environmental uncertainties. Additional tests suggest that the CEOs who experienced famine during their youth had a greater impact on accounting conservatism. By using the exogenous variation in local severity of the famine, we confirm the causal relationship between CEOs’ early-life famine experience and the level of accounting conservatism. Our study contributes to the accounting policy choice literature, and results are robust for several other robustness tests. We argue that the CEO will apply the risk sensitivity learned from the famine experience to the company’s accounting policy decisions to meet the obligations of the contracting parties and other stakeholders.

Keywords: Accounting Conservatism, CEO life experience, corporate governance

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Jun and Long, Wenbin and Tian, Gary Gang and Yao, Troy, CEOs’ Great Chinese Famine Experience and Accounting Conservatism: Evidence from China (December 1, 2017). Asian Finance Association (AsianFA) 2018 Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3107451 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3107451
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
reducing debt costs , volume 77 , p. 867 - 890
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,437
RANK
264,473
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies