Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR Performance Proxies in Large-Sample Studies: 'Umbrella Advocates', Construct Clarity and the 'Validity Police'

76 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2018

Lies Bouten

Iéseg School of Management

Charles H. Cho

ESSEC Business School; York University - Schulich School of Business

Giovanna Michelon

University of Padua

Robin W. Roberts

University of Central Florida - Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting

Date Written: August 2017

Abstract

Corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance is multidimensional, and is often considered an “umbrella” construct (Gond & Crane, 2010). This multidimensionality has generated substantive concerns regarding the construct validity and reliability of common empirical proxies of CSR performance (CSRP); thereby attracting the “validity police” (Rowley & Berman, 2000; Gond & Crane, 2010). Although the breadth and depth of CSRP measurement continues to increase, its links to an underlying, agreed-upon theory remains in doubt. Meanwhile, a market for quantitative measurement of CSRP has grown dramatically. The major providers of CSR ratings are: MSCI (ESG STATS, formerly known as KLD); Thomson Reuters (ASSET4); and Sustainalytics (ESG Indicators). Almost all large-scale empirical studies dealing with CSR use only one of the three providers as the source for their CSRP proxies. The purpose of our study is to review the CSRP constructs and proxies employed in studies published in a select set of influential journals and working paper series, and to determine whether the results might be influenced by the selection of CSRP proxies. We situate our analysis within broader academic debates concerning the calibration of construct and proxy convergence and precision, which provides a basis for evaluating the empirical durability of CSRP constructs across proxy specifications. Using a combination of statistical techniques and interviews with professionals involved in the CSR ratings and investment industry, our analyses show the potential for empirical results to be significantly sensitive to proxy selection and provide qualitative evidence that helps explain the need for more precise and thorough construct and proxy development. We assert that this research is critically important because the accounting literature builds on significant results generated by different proxies for CSRP.

Keywords: Construct Clarity; Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR); Corporate Social Responsibility Performance (CSRP); Rating Providers; Validity

JEL Classification: M40; M41; M14

Suggested Citation:

Bouten, Lies and Cho, Charles H. and Michelon, Giovanna and Roberts, Robin W., CSR Performance Proxies in Large-Sample Studies: 'Umbrella Advocates', Construct Clarity and the 'Validity Police' (August 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3107182 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3107182
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
121 References
B R Agle , R K Mitchell , J A Jonnenfeld
Who matters to CEOs? An investigation of stakeholder attributes and salience, corporate performance, and CEO values
Academy of Management Journal , volume 42 , issue 5 , p. 507 - 525 Posted: 1999
Crossref
S A Al-Tuwaijri , T E Christensen , I I Hughes , K E
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: A simultaneous equations approach. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 29 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
Crossref
K.-H Bae , J.-K Kang , J Wang
Employee treatment and firm leverage: A test of stakeholder theory of capital structure
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 130 - 153 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M L Barnett , R M Solomon
Does it pay to be really good? Addressing the shape of the relationship between social and financial performance
Strategic Management Journal , volume 33 , issue 11 , p. 1304 - 1320 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,657
RANK
44,473
34 Citations
121 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies