Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Price of Integrity

73 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2018 Last revised: 29 Jul 2021

Chen Chen

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Ying Xia

Monash University - Monash Business School

Bohui Zhang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Date Written: July 29, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of integrity culture on firms’ financing costs. Using different integrity measures at both firm and regional levels, we find that firms with a lower integrity level or firms located in regions lacking integrity have a higher bank loan spread and higher implied cost of equity. To address endogeneity, we adopt forced CEO turnovers due to personal indiscretions and Massachusetts’ Alimony Reform Law of 2011 as two exogenous shocks to firms’ integrity culture. We further identify accounting information quality and excessive risk taking as two channels through which integrity culture affects financing costs.

Keywords: Integrity, Corporate culture, Bank loan spread, Implied cost of equity capital

JEL Classification: M14, G21, G12, G30

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Chen and Xia, Ying and Zhang, Bohui, The Price of Integrity (July 29, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3107405 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3107405
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
676
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,001
RANK
88,471
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies