Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Employee Movements from Audit Firms to Audit Clients

Claremont McKenna College Robert Day School of Economics and Finance Research Paper No. 3108778

57 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2018

Andrew Finley

Claremont McKenna College - Robert Day School of Economics and Finance

Mindy (Hyo Jung) Kim

Saint Louis University - Department of Accounting

Phillip T. Lamoreaux

Arizona State University

Clive S. Lennox

University of Southern California

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 1, 2018

Abstract

Regulators have expressed concerns about the “revolving door” between auditors and clients, whereby audit employees move directly from audit firms to audit clients (i.e., “direct alumni hires”). Regulators are concerned that these direct hires could compromise audit quality, partly because these employees could have previously audited their hiring company’s financial statements. We expand the scope of the analysis by examining employees who move indirectly from audit firms to audit clients and who could not have previously audited the hiring company’s financial statements (i.e., “indirect alumni hires”). We show that indirect hires occur more often than the direct hires that have concerned regulators. We predict and find that both direct and indirect alumni hires are associated with lower rates of executive turnover. There is no evidence that the reduced rates of executive turnover are explained by managerial entrenchment. We also predict and find that both direct and indirect alumni hires are associated with lower rates of audit firm turnover. However, there is little evidence that these hires result in lower audit quality. Overall, our findings suggest that direct and indirect employee movements from audit firms to audit clients are beneficial to executives, audit clients, and audit firms as they reduce the incidence of costly turnover.

Keywords: auditors, executive selection, auditor turnover, executive turnover

JEL Classification: J63, M12, M42

Suggested Citation:

Finley, Andrew and Kim, Hyo Jung and Lamoreaux, Phillip T. and Lennox, Clive, Employee Movements from Audit Firms to Audit Clients (January 1, 2018). Claremont McKenna College Robert Day School of Economics and Finance Research Paper No. 3108778, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3108778 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3108778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
5 Citations
Nathan H. Cannon , David N. Herda , Thomas M. Puffer
Colleagues for Life? Post-Employment Citizenship among Big 4 Alumni
Accounting Horizons , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 25 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Amr Kotb , Hussein Halabi , Hany Elbardan
The Auditor‐To‐Client Revolving Door: A Structured Literature Review
International Journal of Auditing, Vol. 22, Issue 3, pp. 464-485, 2018 · 22 Pages · Posted: 23 Oct 2018 · Downloads: 7
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ashley A. Austin , Tina Carpenter
Game Changer: Can Modifications to Audit Firm Communication Improve Auditors’ Actions in Response to Heightened Fraud Risk?
57 Pages · Posted: 14 Apr 2017 · Last revised: 12 Aug 2021 · Downloads: 389
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ahsan Habib , Md. Borhan Uddin Bhuiyan , Julia Wu
Corporate Governance Determinants of Financial Restatements: A Meta-Analysis
The International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming · 64 Pages · Posted: 29 May 2020 · Last revised: 13 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 437
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
451
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,115
RANK
146,772
5 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies