Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
De-Politicization and Innovation: A Study Based on Chinese A-Share Companies

32 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2018

Xiuting Qin

Independent

Xueyong Zhang

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE)

Date Written: January 10, 2018

Abstract

This study analyzes whether the loss of political connections in the Chinese listed firms affects their innovation. Using number of firm patents as a proxy for innovation, we construct a quasi-natural experiment, which focuses on independent directors with political connections were forced to resign due to CPC regulation in 2013 to explore the casual relation between political connections and firm innovation. The baseline results indicate that the innovation output has improved significantly since the promulgation of the Chinese government’s policy in 2013. In addition, we also find that firms that lose political ties tend to increase R&D investments. The results suggest that de-politicization has been conducive to promoting technological innovation in China, which are also confirmed in additional robustness and placebo tests.

Keywords: De-Politicization, Difference in Difference, Innovation, PSM, R&D

JEL Classification: G38, O32

Suggested Citation:

Qin, Xiuting and Zhang, Xueyong, De-Politicization and Innovation: A Study Based on Chinese A-Share Companies (January 10, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3108634 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3108634
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
J S Linck , J M Netter , T Yang
The effects and unintended consequences of the SarbanesOxley Act on the supply and demand for directors
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 8 , p. 3287 - 3328 Posted: 2008
Crossref
K Litvak
The effect of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on non-US companies cross-listed in the US
Journal of corporate Finance , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 195 - 228 Posted: 2007
Crossref
X Luo , L Zhou , S S Liu
Entrepreneurial firms in the context of China's transition economy: an integrative framework and empirical examination
Journal of Business Research , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 277 - 284 Posted: 2005
Crossref
T W Ngo
Rent-seeking and economic governance in the structural nexus of corruption in China
Crime Law & Social Change , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 44 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,274
RANK
635,835
2 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies