Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance of Insurance Firms after Solvency II

in “Insurance Regulation in the European Union: Solvency II and Beyond”, edited by P. Marano – M. Siri, Palgrave Macmillan, London, 2017

Goethe University - International Center for Insurance Regulation - Working Paper Series No. 27/2017

39 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2018

Michele Siri

Università degli Studi di Genova - Law School; European Banking Institute; EUSFIL Jean Monnet Center of Excellence on Sustainable Finance and Law; Frankfurt School of Finance & Management; Bocconi University - Bocconi Law Department

Date Written: July 10, 2017

Abstract

Under Solvency II, corporate governance requirements are a complementary, but nonetheless essential, element to build a sound regulatory framework for insurance undertakings, also to address risks not specifically mitigated by the sole solvency capital requirements. After recalling the provisions of the Second Pillar concerning the system of governance, the paper highlights the emerging regulatory trends in the corporate governance of insurance firms. Among others things, it signals the exceptional extension of the duties and responsibilities assigned to the board of directors, far beyond the traditional role of both monitoring the chief executive officer, and assessing the overall direction and strategy of the business. However, a better risk governance is not necessarily built on narrow rule-based approaches to corporate governance.

Keywords: Insurance, Corporate Governance, Board of Directors, Culture, Risk Management, Internal Controls, Proportionality, Regulation, EIOPA, Solvency, Guidelines, ORSA, Own Risk Self Assessment

JEL Classification: K22, G38

Suggested Citation:

Siri, Michele, Corporate Governance of Insurance Firms after Solvency II (July 10, 2017). in “Insurance Regulation in the European Union: Solvency II and Beyond”, edited by P. Marano – M. Siri, Palgrave Macmillan, London, 2017, Goethe University - International Center for Insurance Regulation - Working Paper Series No. 27/2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3108439
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
As regards to the interaction between different pieces of EU financial legislation see V
Mifid II in relation to other investor protection regulation: picking up the crumbs of a piecemeal approach
Regulation of the EU Financial Markets: MiFID II and MiFIR Posted: 2017
Crossref
The Marano
Mifidization": The Sunset of Life Insurance in the EU Regulation on Insurance?
On the MiFID requirements about product governance see D. BUSCH, Product Governance and Product Intervention under MiFID II/MiFIR
Regulation of the EU Financial Markets: MiFID II and MiFIR Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
657
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,925
RANK
91,848
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies