Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credibility of Sustainability Reports: The Contribution of Audit Committees

Business Strategy and the Environment (2018, Forthcoming)

36 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2018

Habiba Al-Shaer

Newcastle University Business School

Mahbub Zaman

Hull University Business School; Aarhus University, Department of Management

Date Written: January 25, 2018

Abstract

Concerns about the credibility of sustainability reports can be mitigated through assurance. Although audit committee remit encompasses monitoring of sustainability issues, there are potential complementary and substitution between governance mechanisms. This paper explores the relationship between audit committees and sustainability reporting assurance using resource dependency theory. We find audit committee characteristics have an impact, additional to that of the board of directors and the existence of sustainability committees, on voluntary sustainability assurance. Our results also show that audit committee independence is associated with use of a Big 4 audit firm for sustainability assurance. A negative association between sustainability committees and assurance however indicates assurance could be a burden for small firms. Overall, the findings suggest audit committees add credibility and help improve sustainability reporting through their independence, expertise, and oversight.

Keywords: audit committees, assurance, corporate governance, sustainability, stakeholder

Suggested Citation:

Al-Shaer, Habiba and Zaman, Mahbub, Credibility of Sustainability Reports: The Contribution of Audit Committees (January 25, 2018). Business Strategy and the Environment (2018, Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3109295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Accountability
Introduction to the revised AA1000 Assurance Standards and the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard Posted: 2008
B Al-Najjar
The determinants of audit committee independence and activity: evidence from the UK
International Journal of Auditing , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 191 - 203 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
548
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,279
RANK
116,133
13 Citations
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies