Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Country Differences in the Effect of Political Connections on Stock Price Informativeness

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2020-117

45 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2020

Yuanto Kusnadi

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Bin Srinidhi

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting; City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: January 25, 2018

Abstract

Using an international sample of firms from 28 countries, we document that there exists a negative relationship between political connections and the informativeness of stock price, as measured by idiosyncratic volatility (IV). This finding is robust to alternative regression specifications, sub-samples analyses, and concerns related to endogeneity. A more detailed analysis shows that out of the different types of possible connections, the connectedness of the owners is the primary driver of this result. Further, the negative association is only significant for firms in countries characterized by low institutional quality (i.e. corrupted countries, countries with low access to external equity markets, and countries with low media penetration). There is no evidence of any relation between political connections and stock price informativeness for firms in countries characterized by high institutional quality. Overall, our results show that although political connections exacerbate rent-seeking that weaken the firms’ information environments on average, the negative information consequences are compensated by the countries’ institutional quality.

Keywords: Political Connections, Idiosyncratic Volatility, Institutional Infrastructure

JEL Classification: G14, G15, L14

Suggested Citation:

Kusnadi, Yuanto and Srinidhi, Bin and Srinidhi, Bin, Cross-Country Differences in the Effect of Political Connections on Stock Price Informativeness (January 25, 2018). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2020-117, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3109232 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3109232
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A Ali , T Y Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate Disclosures by Family Firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do Nonaudit Services Compromise Auditor Independence? Further Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus Standards: Properties of Accounting Income in four East Asian Countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,902
RANK
531,260
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies