Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creditor Influence and CEO Compensation: Evidence from Debt Covenant Violations

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 18-006

54 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2018 Last revised: 20 Feb 2018

Steven Balsam

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Yuqi Gu

Willamette University Atkinson Graduate School of Management

Connie X. Mao

Temple University - Department of Finance; Temple University - Department of Finance

Date Written: November 30, 2017

Abstract

Debt covenant violation alters firm dynamics, providing creditors with the right to demand repayment, and via that right, influence firm actions. We provide evidence consistent with creditors employing that channel to influence CEO compensation. Using regression discontinuity analysis, we show that in the year after a covenant violation, after controlling for other factors, CEO compensation is 8.5% lower and the CEO’s compensation package contains fewer risk-taking incentives, as the vega associated with newly granted options is 26% lower. These changes are more pronounced when the creditor has greater influence, such as when the borrower and creditor have a prior lending relationship, the creditor is a highly reputable bank, or when the borrower is financially weaker. We also find that CEOs’ risk-taking incentives decrease with the number of debt covenants, in particular, the number of performance debt covenants being breached.

Keywords: Executive compensation, covenant violation, creditor influence, corporate governance, debt governance

JEL Classification: G21, G34

Suggested Citation:

Balsam, Steven and Gu, Yuqi and Mao, Connie X., Creditor Influence and CEO Compensation: Evidence from Debt Covenant Violations (November 30, 2017). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 18-006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3113768 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3113768
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
562
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,506
RANK
112,209
23 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies