Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Going-Concern Opinions and Corporate Governance

29 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2018

Ning Ren

University of Redlands

Yun Zhu

St. John's University - Department of Economics and Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 25, 2018

Abstract

This paper looks into the issuance of auditor's going-concern opinions and investigates how it triggers subsequent changes in corporate governance, specifically, the corporate control, executive compensation and management turnover. Using a difference-in-difference approach adopting the exogenous shock of Auditing Standard No. 5 (AS5) in 2007, we find that going-concern opinion leads to the decrease in blockholder ownership and institutional ownership, the reduction in CEO's cash compensation and total compensation, and the increase in the turnovers of top executives and auditors.

Keywords: going-concern opinion, corporate governance, blockholder ownership, institutional ownership, CEO compensation, CEO turnover

Suggested Citation:

Ren, Ning and Zhu, Yun, Going-Concern Opinions and Corporate Governance (January 25, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3115624 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3115624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
A Agrawal , J F Jaffe
Management Turnover and Governance Changes Following the Revelation of Fraud
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 42 , p. 309 - 342 Posted: 1999
Crossref
E I Altman , T P Mcgough
Evaluation of a Company as a Going-Concern
Journal of Accountancy , volume 138 , p. 50 - 57 Posted: 1974
G P Baker , M C Jensen , K J Murphy
Compensation and Incentives: Practice vs
Theory. Journal of Finance , volume 43 , p. 593 - 616 Posted: 1988
Crossref
D W Banks , W R Kinney
Loss Contingency Reports and Stock Prices: An Empirical Study
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 20 , p. 240 - 254 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,435
RANK
170,079
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies