Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Materiality Matrixes in Sustainability Reporting: An Empirical Examination

33 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2018

Liad Ortar

College of Law & Business

Date Written: February 4, 2018

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this article is to critically explore the concept of materiality in sustainability reporting. Materiality is a concept adopted from financial accounting practice, in which it is used to differentiate between financially influential activities and those that carry no financial risk. As sustainability reporting is a concept rooted in stakeholder theory, materiality has been adapted to include stakeholders' perspectives in the prioritization process. Today, this is a common practice in most sustainability reports and companies are required to report on their materiality processes as an integral part of the reporting outcome. Design/methodology/approach – In addition to its critical perspective on the current qualitative materiality approach, this article offers a quantitative methodology that was developed through the construction of an empirical model specifically for this purpose. The model consists of two major elements. The first is a preference survey, while the second is a juxtaposition exercise in which the survey results are graphically presented on a two-axis matrix. The model was validated using principal component analysis.

Findings – The findings presented in this article indicate that an empirical quantitative method for materiality is feasible. While there is still much to explore in the field of materiality in order to broaden the applications of this model, it does provide an important contribution as a scholarly starting point.

Social implications – The model proposed is this article has vast social implications mainly in the realm of sustainability reporting. As the article explains, sustainability reporting is currently in a phase of transition from a voluntary approach to a more regulated one. This transitional phase demands the exploration of alternative validated means of prioritizing the issues reported.

Originality/values – The literature review conducted for this study revealed that no published research has attempted to suggest an alternative practical method of materiality decision making. This article’s unique value is that it suggests such a method and presents the methodological reasoning for doing so.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, sustainability reporting, materiality, accounting, non-financials, stakeholders

Suggested Citation:

Ortar, Liad, Materiality Matrixes in Sustainability Reporting: An Empirical Examination (February 4, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3117749 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3117749
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
D A Aaker , V Kumar , G S Day
Marketing research Posted: 2008
M Alonso-Almeida , J Llach , F Marimon
A closer look at the 'Global Reporting Initiative' sustainability reporting as a tool to implement environmental and social policies: A worldwide sector analysis
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 21 , issue 6 , p. 318 - 335 Posted: 2014
M Bradford , J B Earp , D S Showalter , P F Williams
Corporate Sustainability Reporting and Stakeholder Concerns: Is There a Disconnect? Posted: 2016
Crossref
A Calabrese , R Costa , N Levialdi , T Menichini
A fuzzy Analytic Hierarchy Process method to support materiality assessment in sustainability reporting
Journal of Cleaner Production , volume 121 , p. 248 - 264 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Donato Calace
Responsible Consumption and Production
, p. 1 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Donato Calace
Responsible Consumption and Production
, p. 489 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
856
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,661
RANK
64,952
2 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies