Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Overlapping Audit and Compensation Committee Memberships Contribute to Better Financial Reporting Quality? Empirical Evidence for the German Two-Tier System.

International Journal of Economics and Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 15 Feb 2018

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Date Written: December 1, 2017

Abstract

Strengthening audit committee effectiveness is a key challenge from a research, regulation and corporate practice perspective. Audit committees’ monitoring role in financial reporting is of great importance for shareholders and other stakeholder groups. This empirical-quantitative study examines overlapping membership in the audit and compensation committees and its impact on financial reporting quality. The analysis covers a sample of German firms listed on the ‘DAX’, ‘TecDAX’ and ‘MDAX’ for the business years 2010–2016 (426 firm-year observations). Correlation and regression analyses were conducted to evaluate the link between two overlapping variables and financial reporting quality. While the first overlapping variable (proportion of audit committee members who also sit on the compensation committee) contributes positively to accrual quality (as financial reporting quality), no significant results were found for the second overlapping variable (the existence of an independent financial expert as an overlapping member). The main result holds for robustness checks and has major implications in the German two-tier system.

Keywords: corporate governance, audit committee, compensation committee, financial reporting quality, overlapping membership, restatements, accruals

Suggested Citation:

Velte, Patrick, Do Overlapping Audit and Compensation Committee Memberships Contribute to Better Financial Reporting Quality? Empirical Evidence for the German Two-Tier System. (December 1, 2017). International Journal of Economics and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3118161
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,061
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies