Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Sustainability and Financial Performance of Chinese Banks

Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal, 8(3), 358-385, 2017

54 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2018

Olaf Weber

York University - Schulich School of Business; University of Waterloo

Date Written: November 5, 2017

Abstract

Purpose – This paper analyses the connection between the sustainability performance of Chinese banks and their financial indicators to explore whether sustainability regulations can be implemented without decreasing the financial performance of the banking sector.

Design/methodology/approach – The study examined reports and websites of Chinese banks, categorized different corporate sustainability aspects, and conducted panel regression and Granger causality to analyse cause and effect variables.

Findings – The environmental and social performance of Chinese banks increased significantly between 2009 and 2013. Furthermore, a bi-directional causality between financial performance and sustainability performance of Chinese banks has been found. Based on institutional theory, this interaction may be influenced by the Chinese Green Credit Policy.

Research limitations/implications – The findings suggest that corporate sustainability performance and financial performance are not a trade-off but correlate positively. Further research is needed to analyse the effect of financial regulations, such as the Chinese Green Credit Policy.

Practical implications – According to the good management theory by Waddock and Graves (1997) that claims a positive impact of corporate social performance on financial performance, Chinese banks can invest in corporate sustainability to increase their financial success and re-invest parts of the additional returns - also called slack resources - in sustainability activities.

Social implications – Chinese banks are able to influence the economy to become greener and less polluting without sacrificing financial returns.

Originality/value – To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to explore the sustainability performance of Chinese banks, including their products and services.

Keywords: Banks, China, credit, green economy, good management theory, regulation, corporate sustainability

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G38

Suggested Citation:

Weber, Olaf, Corporate Sustainability and Financial Performance of Chinese Banks (November 5, 2017). Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal, 8(3), 358-385, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3118494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
120 References
J Aguilera-Caracuel , N Ortiz-De-Mandojana
Green Innovation and Financial Performance: An Institutional Approach
Organization & Environment , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 365 - 385 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Aizawa , Y Chaofei
Green Credit, Green Stimulus, Green Revolution? China's Mobilization of Banks for Environmental Cleanup
The Journal of Environment & Development , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 119 - 144 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Alberici , F Querci
The Quality of Disclosures on Environmental Policy: The Profile of Financial Intermediaries
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management Posted: 2015
Crossref
R Ameer , R Othman
Sustainability Practices and Corporate Financial Performance: A Study Based on the Top Global Corporations
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 108 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 79 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
838
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,829
RANK
66,809
2 Citations
120 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies