Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Lenders’ Use of Analyst Earnings Forecasts When Establishing Debt Covenant Thresholds

The Accounting Review, forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2018 Last revised: 9 Aug 2021

Andrew C. Call

Marshall School of Business - University of Southern California

John Donovan

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Jared N. Jennings

Washington University in St. Louis

Date Written: August 1, 2021

Abstract

We examine whether lenders use analyst forecasts of the borrower’s earnings as inputs when establishing covenant thresholds in private debt contracts. We find that, among debt contracts that include an earnings covenant, earnings thresholds are set closer to analyst forecasts when analysts have historically issued more accurate earnings forecasts. These results are robust to firm fixed effects and an instrumental variable approach. Further, we find that, following a plausibly exogenous decline in the availability of analyst earnings forecasts, debt contracts are less likely to include earnings covenants. Our evidence is consistent with lenders using analyst earnings forecasts as an input when establishing debt covenant thresholds and suggests sell-side analysts play a role in debt contracting.


Keywords: Analysts, earnings forecasts, debt covenants

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G20, G21

Suggested Citation:

Call, Andrew C. and Donovan, John and Jennings, Jared N., Private Lenders’ Use of Analyst Earnings Forecasts When Establishing Debt Covenant Thresholds (August 1, 2021). The Accounting Review, forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3119889 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3119889
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
J Abarbanell , R Lehavy
Biased forecasts or biased earnings? The role of reported earnings in explaining apparent bias and over/underreaction in analysts' earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue 1-3 , p. 105 - 146 Posted: 2003
Crossref
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
Crossref
P Asquith , M Mikhail , A Au
Information content of equity analyst reports
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 75 , p. 245 - 282 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Ball , R M Bushman , F P Vasvari
The debt-contracting value of accounting information and loan syndicate structure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 247 - 287 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
633
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,911
RANK
96,304
2 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies