Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aggressive Tax Planning and Corporate Social Irresponsibility: Managerial Discretion in the Light of Corporate Governance

Tilburg Law School Research Paper No. 05/2018

29 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2018 Last revised: 20 Feb 2018

Ave-Geidi Jallai

Tax Law Department, Tilburg Law School, Tilburg University

Hans Gribnau

Tilburg Law School

Date Written: February 7, 2018

Abstract

The purpose of this contribution is to explore the possibility of integrating tax with corporate social responsibility (CSR). Some corporate directors seem to argue that they do not have a choice with regard to tax planning, implying that a responsible tax planning strategy is not an option. This contribution shows such argument to be wrong. First, the issue of management accountability and choice will be dealt with in the context of corporate governance systems in order to find out what kinds of obligations corporate governance entail for managers. It will be shown that corporate directors enjoy sufficient discretion for making socially responsible decisions. To this end, two existing theoretical frameworks will be analysed, according to which corporate decisions should prioritise either shareholders or stakeholders interests. Both theories allow managers a choice to act with a wider interest than purely shareholder value maximisation. Furthermore, it will be argued that managerial discretion to take CSR into account does not oblige managers to aspire to some kind of ideal social responsibility but rather to stay away from corporate social irresponsibility (CSI). Therefore, corporate managers in different corporate governance regimes have sufficient room for aligning their tax planning strategies with societal expectations and avoiding aggressive tax planning.

Thus, this paper aims to make two contributions to academic theory. First, it is shown that both shareholder and stakeholder-oriented corporate governance regimes allow for managerial discretion to take CSR on board in tax matters. Secondly, the concept of corporate social irresponsibility is introduced to enhance a more balanced debate about multinationals’ tax planning practices.

Keywords: tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning, corporate governance, shareholder value, stakeholder model managerial discretion, business judgment rule, Corporate Social Responsibility, Corporate Social Irresponsibility, compliance beyond the law

Suggested Citation:

Jallai, Ave-Geidi and Gribnau, Hans, Aggressive Tax Planning and Corporate Social Irresponsibility: Managerial Discretion in the Light of Corporate Governance (February 7, 2018). Tilburg Law School Research Paper No. 05/2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3119552 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3119552
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
J S Armstrong
Social Irresponsibility in Management
Journal of Business Research , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 185 - 213 Posted: 1977
Crossref
K J Arrow
Collected Papers of Kenneth J. Arrow: Applied Economics , volume 6 Posted: 1985
K J Arrow
Social Responsibility and Economic Efficiency
Public Policy , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 303 - 317 Posted: 1973
R S Avi-Yonah
International Tax as International Law: An Analysis of the International Tax Regime Posted: 2008
Load more
8 Citations
StanA. Stevens
Tax Transparency
, volume 17 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Maria Mitroulia , Evangelos Chytis , Thomas Kitsantas , Michalis Skordoulis , Petros Kalantonis
ESG Strategy and Tax Avoidance: Insights from a Meta-Regression Analysis
Journal of Risk and Financial Management , volume 18 , issue 9 , p. 503 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Anne Van de Vijver , Danny Cassimon , Peter-Jan Engelen
A Real Option Approach to Sustainable Corporate Tax Behavior
Sustainability , volume 12 , issue 13 , p. 5406 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Hans Gribnau , Ave-Geidi Jallai
Sustainable Tax Governance and Transparency
Tilburg Law School Research Paper · 27 Pages · Posted: 9 Dec 2018 · Downloads: 619
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
766
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,310
RANK
75,315
8 Citations
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies