Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Intangible Assets—Insights from Meta-Analysis of R&D Research

57 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2018 Last revised: 13 Jul 2020

Anne Jeny

IESEG School of Management

Rucsandra Moldovan

John Molson School of Business, Concordia University

Date Written: July 4, 2020

Abstract

The knowledge- and Internet-based economy demands a re-examination of the accounting treatment for intangibles and a thorough understanding of the empirical evidence on this topic. We review the literature on research and development (R&D), a specific internally developed intangible asset, using meta-analysis techniques that allow us to highlight the areas of consensus and disagreement in quantitative empirical results. The literature we review addresses four main research questions on (1) the determinants of the decision to capitalize R&D, (2) stock market-based outcomes of capitalizing R&D, (3) firm-based outcomes related to expensing R&D, and (4) stock market-based outcomes of expensing R&D. We find higher value relevance of capitalized compared with expensed R&D. There is, however, little robust evidence on the determinants of the capitalization decision and the characteristics of capitalizers. We conclude by highlighting future research that can allow accounting academics to contribute to standard setting.

Keywords: Research and development; Intangible assets; Capitalization; Meta-analysis

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Jeny, Anne and Moldovan, Rucsandra, Accounting for Intangible Assets—Insights from Meta-Analysis of R&D Research (July 4, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3120397 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3120397
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
119 References
D Aboody , B Lev
The value relevance of intangibles: The case of software capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
A Ali , M Ciftci , W M Cready
Market Underestimation of the Implications of R&D Increases for Future Earnings: The U.S. Evidence
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 39 , issue 3-4 , p. 289 - 314 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A M Aloe
An empirical investigation of partial effect sizes in meta-analysis of correlational data
Journal of General Psychology , volume 141 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 64 Posted: 2014
Crossref
A M Aloe , C G Thompson
The Synthesis of Partial Effect Sizes
Journal of the Society for Social Work and Research , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 390 - 405 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
638
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,971
RANK
95,356
119 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies