Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contradictions of Corporate Top Management Motivation by Economic Value Added

12 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2018

Sergey Yashin

Lobachevsky State University of Nizhny Novgorod - Department of Management and Public Administration

Yuriy Trifonov

Lobachevsky State University of Nizhni Novgorod

Egor Koshelev

Lobachevsky State University of Nizhny Novgorod - Department of Management and Public Administration

Date Written: February 10, 2018

Abstract

The purpose of this research is to adjust the well-known economic value added method so that it could be applied for successful motivation of corporate top management. In such a case, this method is compared with the net present value method and the modified economic value added method to bring the top management interests into harmony with the interests of company owners, such as shareholders in a joint-stock company. The anticipated modified economic value added, like the net present value, all by itself does not provide any reliable reference point for a well-targeted motivation of a top manager for long-term corporate objectives. This problem can be resolved by making top-managers' remuneration dependent on the actually obtained modified economic value added on an annual basis as a result of implementing a specific project. In this case, top managers of the company become constructively motivated for the company business value appreciation following the requirements of shareholders.

Keywords: top management motivation, economic value added

JEL Classification: D82, G34, M12

Suggested Citation:

Yashin, Sergey and Trifonov, Yuriy and Koshelev, Egor, Contradictions of Corporate Top Management Motivation by Economic Value Added (February 10, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3121719 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3121719
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
E F Brigham , L C Gapenski
Intermediate Financial Management Posted: 1993
E F Brigham , J F Houston
Fundamentals of Financial Management Posted: 2009
A Damodaran
Investment Valuation: Tools and Techniques for Determining the Value of Any Asset Posted: 2002
S G Galevskiy
Economic Value Added as Instrument of Company Management
Journal of Mining Institute , volume 174 , p. 175 - 177 Posted: 2008
Load more
1 Citations
Sergey Yashin , Egor Koshelev
Modeling of Motivation of Top Managers in Regional Management Structures Using a Multi-Objective Genetic Algorithm
17 Pages · Posted: 4 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 37
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,307
RANK
627,127
1 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies