Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Information Quality and Systematic Risk

33 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2018

Xuejing Xing

University of Alabama at Huntsville

Shan Yan

Michigan State University

Date Written: February 10, 2018

Abstract

Whether and how accounting information quality affects the cost of capital has been a matter of much debate. We contribute to this debate by linking accounting information quality to systematic risk, inspired by recent theoretical discussions. Using the universe of firms jointly listed in the CRSP and Compustat databases from 1962 to 2012, we find that accounting information quality is significantly and negatively related to systematic risk. This relation is robust to alternative proxies for the two constructs, including a model-free measure of risk. Further analysis indicates that improving accounting information quality causes systematic risk to decrease. These findings have important implications for disclosure decisions, portfolio management, and asset pricing.

Keywords: Accounting information quality, systematic risk, abnormal accruals, endogeneity

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M40

Suggested Citation:

Xing, Xuejing and Yan, Shan, Accounting Information Quality and Systematic Risk (February 10, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3121577 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3121577
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Yunsen Chen , Yao Lu , Dengjin Zheng
Boardroom Centrality and Systematic Risk
48 Pages · Posted: 13 Dec 2018 · Last revised: 7 May 2020 · Downloads: 337
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
313
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,017
RANK
222,024
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies