Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Corporate Sustainability Officers on Performance

Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2018

Gary F. Peters

University of Arkansas at Fayetteville

Andrea M. Romi

Texas Tech University - Area of Accounting

Juan Manuel Sanchez

University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: February 11, 2018

Abstract

The creation of a specialized executive position that oversees sustainability activities represents a distinct shift in the structure of top management teams and their approach for addressing sustainability concerns. However, little is known about these management team members, namely the corporate sustainability officers or CSOs. We examine CSO appointments and their association with subsequent sustainability performance. Our results indicate that the creation of a CSO position may represent more of a symbolic versus substantive governance mechanism. Further tests suggest that CSO expertise and the firm’s existing sustainability performance affect the association between the CSO and post-appointment sustainability performance. We find no association between CSO appointments and subsequent sustainability performance for firms that were already poor performers, while firms possessing relatively higher levels of prior sustainability performance appointing a CSO begin to experience significant improvements to performance after three years. We further find that CSOs with prior sustainability expertise are associated with increases in sustainability performance in firms that were already strong performers, but not in firms with poor sustainability performance. Non-expert CSOs on the other hand, are associated with initial decreases in performance for poor performing firms, whereas better performing firms hiring non-expert CSOs are able to rely on other sustainability attributes of the firm and benefit from improvements in performance in the long-term. We discuss the potential importance of these positions as it relates to symbolic vs. substantive governance mechanisms through the lens of top management team literature streams.

Keywords: Chief Sustainability Officer; CSO; sustainability performance; CSO expertise

Suggested Citation:

Peters, Gary F. and Romi, Andrea and Sanchez, Juan Manuel, The Influence of Corporate Sustainability Officers on Performance (February 11, 2018). Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3122114
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
R V Aguilera , C A Williams , J M Conley , D E Rupp
Corporate governance and social responsibility: a comparative analysis of the UK and the US
Corporate Governance: an International Review , volume 14 , p. 147 - 158 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Ball Corp
Ball Corporation Proxy Statement Pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Posted: 2008
P Bansal , K Roth
Why companies go green: A model of ecological responsiveness
Academy of Management Journal , volume 43 , issue 4 , p. 717 - 736 Posted: 2000
Crossref
P Bansal , G J Kistruck
Seeing is (not) believing: Managing the impressions of the firm's commitment to the natural environment
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 67 , p. 165 - 180 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,105
RANK
240,980
10 Citations
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies