Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Board Members with Foreign Experience Help to Deliver Financial Reports?

41 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2018

Dorota Dobija

Kozminski University

Karolina Puławska

Kozminski University

Date Written: February 13, 2018

Abstract

We test whether diversity on corporate boards helps to increase the quality of financial reporting. In particular, we focus on members with foreign experience (EFE) sitting on boards and audit committees (ACs), and study how their presence as directors or members of AC enhances the timeliness of financial reporting. The results show that EFEs can effectively improve board's efficiency and result in increased timeliness of reporting. Our findings, therefore, support the theoretical assumptions of selective adaptation theory by showing that companies translate an alien concept to local conditions and welcome the benefit of having an EFE on board. This study makes its core contribution by empirically showing that an EFE on boards and AC have implications for financial reporting quality. The results may be potentially helpful for supervisory bodies as well as regulators as they provide an insight on how the presence of EFEs influences financial reporting timeliness.

Keywords: corporate governance, reporting timeliness, experts with foreign experience, audit committees, emerging markets, Poland

JEL Classification: G30, M42, M41, M14

Suggested Citation:

Dobija, Dorota and Puławska, Karolina, Can Board Members with Foreign Experience Help to Deliver Financial Reports? (February 13, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3123016 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3123016
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
111 References
J L Abbott , S Parker , G Peters
Internal Audit Assistance and External Audit Timeliness
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2012
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G Peters , G Raghunandan
The association between Audit Committee characteristics and audit fees
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
Crossref
O H Abdelsalam , D L Street
Corporate governance and the timeliness of corporate internet reporting by UK listed companies
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 141 Posted: 2007
Crossref
S N Abdullah
Board composition, audit committee and timeliness of corporate financial reports in Malaysia
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 33 - 45 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,949
RANK
524,565
111 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies