Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Capital Adequacy on Financial Performance of Quoted Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria

Amahalu, N.N., Okoye, E.I., Nweze, C.L., Obi, C.J., & Okika, E.C. (2017). EFFECT OF CAPITAL ADEQUACY ON FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF QUOTED DEPOSIT MONEY BANKS IN NIGERIA. The 2017 International Conference on African Entrepreneurship and Innovation for Sustainable Development (AEISD)

22 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2018

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Chike Nweze

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Obi Chinyere

University of Nigeria Enugu Campus

Okika Christian

Nnamdi Azikiwe University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 18, 2017

Abstract

The objective of this study was to ascertain the effect of Capital Adequacy on Financial Performance with a focus on selected quoted Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria from 2010-2015. This study made use of secondary data obtained from fact books, annual reports, and the account of the Deposit Money Banks under study. The data were subjected to statistical analysis using Pearson Coefficient of Correlation, Multiple Regression Analysis, Variance Inflation Factors, Multicollinearity, Heteroskedasticity test and Hausman test. The result of this study revealed that there is a positive and significant relationship between Capital Adequacy and Financial Performance. It was also empirically verified that Capital Adequacy has a statistically significant effect on Financial Performance on Deposit Money Banks at 5% level of significance. This study recommended that banks should avoid overreliance on debt, as the increase in the proportion of debt in the capital structure increases the financial risk and the risk of financial distress and bankruptcy.

Keywords: Capital Adequacy, Financial Performance, Non-Performing Assets

JEL Classification: M41, M45, M46

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor and Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu and Nweze, Chike and Obi, Juliet and Okika, Elochukwu, Effect of Capital Adequacy on Financial Performance of Quoted Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria (February 18, 2017). Amahalu, N.N., Okoye, E.I., Nweze, C.L., Obi, C.J., & Okika, E.C. (2017). EFFECT OF CAPITAL ADEQUACY ON FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF QUOTED DEPOSIT MONEY BANKS IN NIGERIA. The 2017 International Conference on African Entrepreneurship and Innovation for Sustainable Development (AEISD), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3125656
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
M F Abiahu , N N Amahalu
Effect of taxation on dividend policy of quoted deposit money banks in Nigeria
EPH-International Journal of Business & Management Science , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2017
A Adeyemi , Adekunle , T Asaolu
An empirical investigation of the financial report practices and banks' stability in Nigeria. International review of management and business research , volume 2 , p. 22 - 32 Posted: 2013
O Agbada , C C Osuji
The efficiency of liquidity management and banking performance in Nigeria. International review of management and business research , volume 2 , p. 22 - 42 Posted: 2013
N M Al-Sabbagh
Determinants of capital adequacy ratio in Jordanian banks. Thesis submitted to Yarmoukuniversity, for the award of Master Degree in Bank and finance science Posted: 2004-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,381
RANK
67,775
2 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies