Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Monitoring and Misreporting: The Role of Rules-based and Principles-based Accounting Standards

62 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2018 Last revised: 30 Aug 2022

Li Fang

University of Connecticut - School of Business

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Yinqi Zhang

American University

Yuping Zhao

University of Houston

Date Written: August 30, 2022

Abstract

Prior research provides some evidence that strict corporate monitoring constrains financial misreporting. We examine whether the efficacy of various corporate monitoring mechanisms hinges on the nature of accounting standards―rules-based standards (RBS) versus principles-based standards (PBS)―in place. We generally document that the negative association between the likelihood of misstatements and tough monitoring by audit committees, boards, external auditors, and the SEC is more pronounced under RBS than under PBS. This evidence collectively suggests that most corporate gatekeepers fulfill their monitoring obligations primarily through ensuring better compliance with detailed standards when the applicable standards are more specific and leave less room for discretion. In contrast, our results imply that corporate monitors may fail to effectively constrain managerial opportunism when the standards are less specific and provide wider scope for managers to exercise discretion. Relevant to the public policy discourse, our results lend support to the narrative that there is a sound institutional fit between the current corporate monitoring structure and rules-oriented accounting standards, while casting doubt on whether current corporate monitoring mechanisms would continue to function effectively in the event that the U.S. financial reporting regime moves to a more principles-based framework.

Keywords: Accounting Standards, Restatements, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Fang, Li and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Zhang, Yinqi and Zhao, Yuping, Corporate Monitoring and Misreporting: The Role of Rules-based and Principles-based Accounting Standards (August 30, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3125008 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3125008
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
132 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements , volume 23 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
A Acito , J Burks , W Johnson
Materiality decisions and the correction of accounting errors
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 659 - 688 Posted: 2009
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
B K Adhikari , A Agrawal , J Malm
Do women managers keep firms out of trouble? Evidence from corporate litigation and policies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 202 - 225 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
490
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,772
RANK
133,220
2 Citations
132 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies