Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investment Committee Characteristics and Investment Efficiency

Eulaiwi, B., Al-Hadi, A., Al-Yahyaee, K. H., & Taylor, G. (2021). Investment Board Committee and Investment Efficiency in a Unique Environment. Emerging Markets Finance and Trade, 57(15), 4408-4423.

Eulaiwi, B., Al-Hadi, A., Al-Yahyaee, K. H., & Taylor, G. (2021). Investment Board Committee and Investment Efficiency in a Unique Environment. Emerging Markets Finance and Trade, 57(15), 4408-4423.

Eulaiwi, B., Al-Hadi, A., Al-Yahyaee, K. H., & Taylor, G. (2021). Investment Board Committee and Investment Efficiency in a Unique Environment. Emerging Markets Finance and Trade, 57(15), 4408-4423.

Posted: 17 Feb 2018 Last revised: 5 Oct 2022

Ahmed Al-Hadi

Sultan Qaboos University - Accounting; Curtin University - School of Accounting; Sultan Qaboos University - College of Economics & Political Science

Baban Eulaiwi

Curtin University - School of Accounting

Grantley Taylor

Curtin University - School of Accounting

Khamis Al-Yahyaee

Sultan Qaboos University; Economic Research Forum

Date Written: November 10, 2017

Abstract

This study investigates the association between existence of a board investment committee and that committee’s characteristics and corporate investment efficiency. Using a sample of industrial firms from six Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries over the 2005–2013 period, we find that the existence of an investment committee reduces both under- and over-investment by these firms. We also find that financial expertise of committee members positively affects firms’ investment efficiency. These findings are consistent with the assertion that a board investment committee assists with the monitoring and control of firms’ investments. We also find that the existence of an investment committee is likely to reduce over- and under-investment in firms with high levels of foreign ownership concentration. The tenets of agency theory suggest that the existence of an investment committee aligns a firm’s investment activities with the objective of shareholder wealth maximization. These results are robust to a battery of additional tests that use alternative measures of investment efficiency and tests relating to self-selection bias and endogeneity.

Keywords: Investment Committee, Investment Efficiency, Experience, Foreign Investors, GCC

Suggested Citation:

Al-Hadi, Ahmed and Eulaiwi, Baban and Taylor, Grantley and Al-Yahyaee, Khamis, Investment Committee Characteristics and Investment Efficiency (November 10, 2017). Eulaiwi, B., Al-Hadi, A., Al-Yahyaee, K. H., & Taylor, G. (2021). Investment Board Committee and Investment Efficiency in a Unique Environment. Emerging Markets Finance and Trade, 57(15), 4408-4423., Eulaiwi, B., Al-Hadi, A., Al-Yahyaee, K. H., & Taylor, G. (2021). Investment Board Committee and Investment Efficiency in a Unique Environment. Emerging Markets Finance and Trade, 57(15), 4408-4423., Eulaiwi, B., Al-Hadi, A., Al-Yahyaee, K. H., & Taylor, G. (2021). Investment Board Committee and Investment Efficiency in a Unique Environment. Emerging Markets Finance and Trade, 57(15), 4408-4423., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3125265
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,435
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies