Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Merger Performance: The Marriage between SAIL and MEL

Amity Management Review, June-December 2012, Vol. 2, Issue 2, pp. 69-79

12 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2018

Leepsa NM

Arizona State University @Lake Havasu

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

The purpose of the study is to analyze the financial performance of Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) after merger deal with MEL. The financial statements are analyzed for pre and post-merger five years (2000-2010) by using seven financial ratios. The accounting approach uses accounting measures and productivity measures of financial statements to evaluate the M&A success. In spite of creation limitations, accounting ratios are considered as reliable and convenient for making analysis since financial statements are audited. Ratio analysis is employed as is considered as a convenient technique to make a quantitative analysis of companies’ performance. The results show that the financial performance of SAIL in terms of profitability, liquidity, and solvency has improved after the merger. It indicates that merger deals improve the financial performance of companies. The limitation of the study is that it only focused on the financial aspect of the merger but ignores which factor have impacted the deal’s success and failure. A study can be made by controlling factors affecting steel industries. It would enable the organizations to have a choice between organic and inorganic growth strategy. Case-based research on pre and post-merger on steel companies is made which is few as far as knowledge is concerned. This paper is an attempt to look into a specific deal by which it would make deep understanding of merger performance in India.

Keywords: Merger Acquisition

Suggested Citation:

Nabaghan Madhabika, Leepsa, Merger Performance: The Marriage between SAIL and MEL (2012). Amity Management Review, June-December 2012, Vol. 2, Issue 2, pp. 69-79, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3127258
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,392
RANK
644,694
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies