Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial and Corporate Social Performance in the UK Listed Firms: The Relevance of Non-Linearity and Lag Effects

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, 2018

54 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2018

Emmanuel Adegbite

University of Nottingham

Yilmaz Guney

Coventry University

Frank Kwabi

De Montfort University

Suleiman Tahir

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: February 21, 2018

Abstract

Using environmental, social and governance (ESG) scores compiled by Reuters Datastream for each company’s corporate social performance (CSP), we examine the relationship between CSP and corporate financial performance (CFP) of 314 UK listed companies over the period 2002 to 2015. We further evaluate the relationship between prior and subsequent CFP and prior and subsequent CSP. Based on the system-GMM estimation method, we provide direct evidence that suggests that while CFP and CSP can be linked linearly; however, when we examine the impact of CSP on CFP, the association is more non-linear (cubic) than linear. Our results suggest that firms periodically adjust their level of commitment to society, in order to meet their target CSP. The primary contributions of this paper are testing i) the non-monotonous relationship between CSP and CFP, ii) the lagged relationship between the two and the optimality of CSP levels, and iii) the presence of a virtuous circle. Our results further suggest that CSP contributes to CFP better during post-crisis years. Our findings are robust to year-on-year changes in CFP and CSP, financial versus non-financial firms, and the intensity of corporate social responsibility (CSR) engagement across industries.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility · Corporate financial performance, Corporate social performance, Slack resources theory, UK firms

JEL Classification: G34, M14

Suggested Citation:

Adegbite, Emmanuel and Guney, Yilmaz and Kwabi, Frank and Tahir, Suleiman, Financial and Corporate Social Performance in the UK Listed Firms: The Relevance of Non-Linearity and Lag Effects (February 21, 2018). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3127400
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
242
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,851
RANK
288,800
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies