Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Interplay between Related Party Transactions and Earnings Management: The Role of Audit Quality

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Vol. 32, pp.47-60

45 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2018 Last revised: 3 Oct 2018

Moataz El-Helaly

School of Business, The American University in Cairo

Ifigenia Georgiou

Aston University - Aston Business School

Alan Lowe

School of Accounting; Aston University - Aston Business School - Finance and Accounting Group

Date Written: February 22, 2018

Abstract

Related party transactions (RPTs) are considered a potential tool for shareholders’ wealth expropriation, as they offer opportunities to transfer wealth between the firm and related parties. While considerable evidence has been reported on the negative consequences of RPTs (declines in shareholder wealth, lowered accounting quality and an increased likelihood of financial fraud), studies examining how RPTs may be used in earnings management are relatively rare. Therefore, we aim to provide evidence on how RPTs and earnings management are related. Consequently, we investigate whether RPTs are associated with real or accrual earnings management or used as a third alternative to manage reported earnings. Our study employs a sample of firms listed on the Athens Stock Exchange during the period between 2009 and 2014. Our results confirm that, on average, real earnings management and RPTs appear to be used as substitutes. However, additional tests show that this substitution is not significant if the firm is audited by one of the Big 4 auditors. Contrarily, we do not find any significant association between accrual earnings management and RPTs. Our evidence adds to understanding around the interplay between RPTs and earnings management and how audit quality can affect the relationships investigated.

Keywords: Related Party Transaction, Earnings Management, Greece

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, K20

Suggested Citation:

El-Helaly, Moataz and Georgiou, Ifigenia and Lowe, Alan, The Interplay between Related Party Transactions and Earnings Management: The Role of Audit Quality (February 22, 2018). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Vol. 32, pp.47-60, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3128124
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Abdul Wahab , E A Haron , H Lok , C L Yahya , S
Does corporate governance matter? Evidence from related party transactions in Malaysia
Advances in Financial Economics , volume 14 , p. 131 - 164 Posted: 2010
J Aharony , J Wang , H Yuan
Tunneling as an incentive for earnings management during the IPO process in China
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 29 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A A Ballas , D Skoutela , C A Tzovas
The relevance of IFRS to an emerging market: Evidence from Greece
Managerial Finance , volume 36 , p. 931 - 948 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M S Beasley , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , T L Neal
Fraudulent financial reporting: 1998-2007: An analysis of U.S. public companies
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission Posted: 2010
Load more
4 Citations
Arna Suryani , Atikah , Hana Tamara Putri
The Effect of Related Party Transactions Through Opportunistic Behaviour Management to Increase Firm Value
J. Fin. Bank. Review 4 (2) 64–72 (2019), · 9 Pages · Posted: 10 Sep 2019 · Downloads: 345
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Avishek Bhandari , Mark J. Kohlbeck
Related Party Transactions and Credit Rating
56 Pages · Posted: 27 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 219
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mohammad Alhadab , Malek El Diri
Related Party Transactions and Earnings Management under the UK Different Regulatory Environments of the Main and Alternative Investment Markets
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation · 49 Pages · Posted: 7 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 110
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jing Zhang , Runxuan Lin , Zhuquan Wang , Brian Yutao Wang
Is Strategic Innovation More Conducive to Operation Cash Flow Manipulation? Empirical Test Based on R&D Window-Dressing Under Media Attention                                                                         Author Statementwe Declare that this Manuscript Entitled “Nanjing: Is Strategic Innovation More Conducive to Operation Cash Flow Manipulation? Empirical Test Based on R&D Window-Dressing Under Media Attention” is Original, Has Not Been Published Before and is Not Currently Being Considered for Publication Elsewhere.We Confirm that the Manuscript Has Been Read and Approved by All Named Authors and that There are No Other Persons Who Satisfied the Criteria for Authorship But are Not Listed. We Further Confirm that the Order of Authors Listed in the Manuscript Has Been Approved by All of Us. We State and Confirm the Contributions of Each Author Below.Zhang Jing
FINANA-D-25-00240 · 41 Pages · Posted: 3 Mar 2025 · Downloads: 19
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
444
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,428
RANK
149,425
4 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies