Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Perils of Small-Minority Controllers

Georgetown Law Journal, Vol. 107, 2019, pp.1453-1514

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 434/2018

Harvard Law School John M. Olin Center Discussion Paper No. 985

78 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2018 Last revised: 9 Oct 2019

Lucian A. Bebchuk

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Kobi Kastiel

Tel Aviv University - Buchmann Faculty of Law; Harvard Law School, Program on Corporate Governance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: March 1, 2019

Abstract

This Article contributes to the long-standing and heated debate over dual-class companies by placing a spotlight on a significant set of dual-class companies whose structures raise especially severe governance concerns: those with controllers holding a small minority of the company’s equity capital. Such small-minority controllers dominate some of the country’s largest companies, and we show that their numbers can be expected to grow.

We begin by analyzing the perils of small-minority controllers, explaining how they generate considerable governance costs and risks and showing how these costs can be expected to escalate as the controller’s stake decreases. We then identify the mechanisms that enable such controllers to retain their power despite holding a small or even a tiny minority of the company’s equity capital. Using a hand-collected analysis of governance documents of these companies, we present novel empirical evidence of the current incidence and potential growth of small-minority and tiny-minority controllers. Among other things, we show that governance arrangements at a substantial majority of dual-class companies enable the controllers to reduce their equity stake to below 10% and still retain a lock on control, and that a sizable fraction of such companies enable retaining control with less than a 5% stake.

Finally, we examine the considerable policy implications that arise from recognizing the perils of small-minority controllers. We first discuss disclosures necessary to make transparent to investors the extent to which arrangements enable controllers to reduce their stake without forgoing control. We then identify and examine measures that public officials or institutional investors could take to ensure that controllers maintain a minimum fraction of equity capital; to provide public investors with extra protections in the presence of small-minority controllers; or to screen midstream changes that can introduce or increase the costs of small-minority controllers.


Keywords: Corporate Governance, Agency Problems, Dual-Class, Controlling Shareholders, Small-Minority Controllers, Tiny-Minority Controllers, Wedge, Nonvoting Stock, IPO

JEL Classification: G32, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bebchuk, Lucian A. and Kastiel, Kobi, The Perils of Small-Minority Controllers (March 1, 2019). Georgetown Law Journal, Vol. 107, 2019, pp.1453-1514, European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 434/2018, Harvard Law School John M. Olin Center Discussion Paper No. 985, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3128375 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3128375
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Paul A Gompers , Joy Ishii &amp; Andrew Metrick , Extreme Governance
An Analysis of Dual-Class Firms in the United States, 23 REV. FIN. STUD. 1051, 1052-55, 1067 (2010) (as measured by the standard valuation metric of industry
Id
Id
, p. 1084 - 85
Ronald W Masulis , Cong Wang &amp; Fei Xie
Agency Problems at Dual-Class Companies, 64
J. FIN , volume 1697 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,173
RANK
16,793
7 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies