Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management, Corporate Governance and Tax Avoidance: The Case in Indonesia

J. Fin. Bank. Review 2 (4) 28 – 35 (2017)

8 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2018

Lulus Kurniasih

Sebelas Maret University

Sulardi

Sebelas Maret University

Sri Suranta

Sebelas Maret University

Date Written: December 2, 2017

Abstract

Objective – This study aims to determine the effect of earning management and corporate governance mechanisms on corporate tax avoidance.

Methodology/Technique – Corporate governance mechanisms use institutional ownership, the size of the board of commissioners, the percentage of independent commissioners, auditing committees, and audit quality as proxies.

Meanwhile, earnings management uses the modified Jones model. The sample of this study include non-financial companies that are listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange (IDX) between 2014 and 2016.

Findings – Corporate tax avoidance can be detected by using the effective tax rate (ETR), which is the ratio of income to tax expenses. This sample was chosen using a purposive sampling method, resulting in 871 firms. The results suggest that earnings management has a significant impact on ETR.

Novelty – This study identifies that only independent commissioners and audit quality have a significant influence on ETR.

Type of Paper: Empirical.

Keywords: Tax Avoidance; Earnings Management; Corporate Governance; Effective Tax Rate; Audit Quality.

JEL Classification: G3, G39, G39.

Suggested Citation:

Kurniasih, Lulus and , Sulardi and Suranta, Sri, Earnings Management, Corporate Governance and Tax Avoidance: The Case in Indonesia (December 2, 2017). J. Fin. Bank. Review 2 (4) 28 – 35 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3129297
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Q Ain , A Dan , Subardjo
The Effects of Good Corporate Governance on Effective Tax Rates
Journal Ilmu and Riset Akuntansi , volume 4 , issue 12 Posted: 2015
N A Annisa , Dan L Kurniasih
Effect of Corporate Governance on Tax Avoidance
Journal Akuntansi and Auditing , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 95 - 189 Posted: 2012-05
Hairul Annuar , Azlan
Corporate Ownership, Governance and Tax Avoidance: An Interactive Effects
Procedia -Social and Behavioral Sciences , volume 164 , p. 150 - 160 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Sanjai Bhagat , Bernard S. Black
The Uncertain Relationship between Board Composition and Firm Performance
As published in Business Lawyer, Vol. 54, pp. 921-963, 1999. Pages: 47 Posted: 17 Oct 1997
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
488
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,204
RANK
133,528
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies