Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Culture on Internal Control Weaknesses: Evidence from Firms that Cross-List in the U.S.

Journal of International Accounting Research Vol. 16, No. 3, pp. 119-145, Fall 2017

Posted: 5 Mar 2018

Maria T. Caban-Garcia

University of South Florida, St. Petersburg Campus

Carmen Ríos Figueroa

University of Puerto Rico

Karin A. Petruska

Youngstown State University

Date Written: September 2017

Abstract

This study addresses the impact of culture on the likelihood of U.S. foreign issuers reporting material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting (MWICs). Specifically, we explore whether Hofstede's (1980, 2001) country-level dimensions of power distance, individualism, uncertainty avoidance, masculinity, and long-term orientation explain the likelihood of U.S. foreign issuers reporting internal control deficiencies under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX). To assess whether home country guidance on internal control reporting influences U.S. foreign issuers detecting and reporting MWICs, we identify and control for the adoption of internal control guidance in foreign jurisdictions. Our results show that firms from countries with a high power distance and long-term orientation are more likely to report MWICs. In addition, we find that firms from countries that implement internal control guidance are less likely to report MWICs, suggesting that the effectiveness of U.S. foreign issuers' internal control over financial reporting is influenced by their home countries' regulation and oversight. These results are generally robust to a number of additional sensitivity tests.

Keywords: Internal Control Over Financial Reporting; National Culture; Cross-Listed Firms; Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX)

JEL Classification: M14; M16; M48

Suggested Citation:

Caban-Garcia, Maria T. and Ríos Figueroa, Carmen and Petruska, Karin A., The Impact of Culture on Internal Control Weaknesses: Evidence from Firms that Cross-List in the U.S. (September 2017). Journal of International Accounting Research Vol. 16, No. 3, pp. 119-145, Fall 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3129766
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,339
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies