Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Corporate Governance on Banks: Evidence from Yemen and GCC Countries

45 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2018

Prof. Dr. Ahmed Al-Baidhani أ. د. احمد البيضاني

University Putra Malaysia - Putra Business School; The German University in Cairo; Maastricht School of Management (MSM)

Date Written: February 25, 2018

Abstract

There is no specific optimal corporate governance model that may be applied to all banks since banks operate under different management, board of directors, ownership structures, and government regulations. This study examines the impact of internal corporate governance mechanisms such as board structure, ownership structure, and audit function as well as other variables such as bank size and bank age on bank financial performance. The sample of the study consists of both conventional and Islamic banks operating in Yemen and the six Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and United Arab Emirates. Regression analysis (OLS) is used to test the aforementioned impact. The results of this study show that there is a significant relationship between internal corporate governance and bank financial performance. Board meetings and bank age have positive and significant impacts on ROE. Meanwhile, board independence and bank size have negative and significant impacts on ROA. In addition, bank age and board committees have positive impacts on Profit Margin while ownership concentration has a negative impact on this profitability measure. These results are consistent with previous studies. However, the literature indicate that the above correlation and consequent impact of internal corporate governance mechanisms on bank performance in developing countries are still not clearly established.

Keywords: corporate governance, bank performance, board structure, ownership structure, audit function, profitability, Yemen, GCC countries

Suggested Citation:

Al-Baidhani أ. د. احمد البيضاني, Prof. Dr. Ahmed, Impact of Corporate Governance on Banks: Evidence from Yemen and GCC Countries (February 25, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3129580 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3129580
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
A Abu-Tapanjeh
Corporate governance from the Islamic perspective: a comparative analysis with OECD principles
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 20 , p. 556 - 567 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R B Adams , H Mehran
Is Corporate Governance Different for Bank Holding Companies? Federal Reserve Bank of New York
Economic Policy Review , volume 9 , p. 123 - 142 Posted: 2003
A Agrawal , R Knoeber
Firm performance and mechanisms to control agency problems between managers and shareholders
Journal of Financial Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 398 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Fahd Alduais , Jafer Alsawalhah , Nashat A. Almasria
Examining the Impact of Corporate Governance on Investors and Investee Companies: Evidence from Yemen
Economies , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 13 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,845
RANK
352,349
1 Citations
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies