Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SOX Section 404 and Corporate Innovation

Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA), Forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2018

Huasheng Gao

Fudan University

Jin Zhang

Monash University

Date Written: February 23, 2018

Abstract

This paper exploits a quasi-natural experiment to investigate the relation between Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) and corporate innovation: firms with a public float under $75 million can delay compliance with Section 404 of the Act. We find a significant decrease in the number of patents and patent citations for firms that are subject to Section 404 compliance relative to firms that are not. This relation is more pronounced when firms are financially constrained and when firms face high litigation risk. Overall, our evidence suggests that SOX imposes real costs to the economy by decreasing corporate innovativeness.

Keywords: Innovation; Patents; SOX; Section 404

JEL Classification: G38; O31

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Huasheng and Zhang, Jin, SOX Section 404 and Corporate Innovation (February 23, 2018). Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3130588
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information Asymmetry, R&D, and Insider Gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
Crossref
V V Acharya , P ; R , K V Baghai , Subramanian
Wrongful Discharge Laws and Innovation
Review of Financial Studies , volume 27 , p. 301 - 346 Posted: 2014
Crossref
V Acharya , Z Xu
Financial Dependence and Innovation: The Case of Public versus Private Firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 124 , p. 223 - 243 Posted: 2017
Crossref
P ; N Aghion , ; R Bloom , Blundell
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
495
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,034
RANK
131,230
18 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies