Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Firms' Mandatory Reporting of Material Weaknesses in Internal Control

Internal Auditing Vol. 30 (6): 24-33, 2015

Posted: 11 Nov 2018

Maria T. Caban-Garcia

University of South Florida, St. Petersburg Campus

Karin A. Petruska

Youngstown State University

Carmen Ríos Figueroa

University of Puerto Rico

Date Written: Nov/Dec 2015

Abstract

The enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) of 2002 established several reforms to improve corporate governance and financial reporting practices for companies listed in US capital markets. Given the important role played by foreign firms in US capital markets, the present article discusses the early effects of SOX's regulation on foreign firms. Country- and firm-level data provide a descriptive analysis of the characteristics and trends in material weakness in internal controls reporting for firms cross-listed on US exchanges. The discussion includes a description of the implementation timeline of Section 404 for foreign issuers and compares some of these characteristics to reports from US firms. Understanding the characteristics of cross-listed firms, as well as country-specific qualities, is important to auditors and managers as they strive to maintain audit quality and improve internal control practices and corporate governance. This information is beneficial to regulators as these characteristics could have implications in the evaluation of foreign firms' compliance with Section 404 requirements.

Keywords: internal control over financial reporting, cross-listed firms, SOX

JEL Classification: M16, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Caban-Garcia, Maria T. and Petruska, Karin A. and Ríos Figueroa, Carmen, Foreign Firms' Mandatory Reporting of Material Weaknesses in Internal Control (Nov/Dec 2015). Internal Auditing Vol. 30 (6): 24-33, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3131894
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
983
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies