Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do We Need to Use an Accountant? The Sales Growth and Survival Benefits to Family SMEs

Barbera, F., & Hasso, T. (2013). Do We Need to Use an Accountant? The Sales Growth and Survival Benefits to Family SMEs. Family Business Review, 26(3), 271-292.

45 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2018

Francesco Barbera

University of Adelaide - Faculty of the Professions

Tim Hasso

Bond University - Bond Business School

Date Written: February 28, 2018

Abstract

This paper explores the relationship between the usage of an external accountant and family firm sales growth and survival. Using a longitudinal panel of Australian family SMEs, we find that external accountants have a positive impact upon sales growth and survival. We also find that the degree to which the accountant is acquainted with the family and the firm’s needs, which we term as embeddedness, moderates these positive outcomes. Furthermore, we find that appropriate strategic planning processes are necessary in order to maximize the sales growth benefit; however, these processes are not necessary in order to gain the survival benefit.

Keywords: family firm, advisor, accountant, sales growth, survival

Suggested Citation:

Barbera, Francesco and Hasso, Tim, Do We Need to Use an Accountant? The Sales Growth and Survival Benefits to Family SMEs (February 28, 2018). Barbera, F., & Hasso, T. (2013). Do We Need to Use an Accountant? The Sales Growth and Survival Benefits to Family SMEs. Family Business Review, 26(3), 271-292., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3131599
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
F Barbera , K Moores
Firm ownership and productivity: A study of family and non-family SMEs
Small Business Economics , volume 1 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J Barney
Firm resources and sustained competitive advantage
Journal of management , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 120 Posted: 1991
Crossref
G Beaver , C Ross
Enterprise in recession: The role and context of strategy
The International Journal of Entrepreneurship and Innovation , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 23 - 23 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Bennett , P Robson
Changing use of external business advice and government supports by SMEs in the 1990s
Regional Studies , volume 37 , issue 8 , p. 795 - 811 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Andrea Calabrò , Mara Cameran , Domenico Campa , Angela Kate Pettinicchio
Financial Reporting in Family Firms: A Socio-Emotional Wealth Approach Toward Information Quality
Calabró A., Cameran M., Campa D., Pettinicchio A., Financial reporting in family firms: a socioemotional wealth approach toward information quality, Journal of Small Business Management, Forthcoming, · 47 Pages · Posted: 8 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 147
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,122
RANK
511,510
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies