Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Restatement Likelihood and Accounting Conservatism: Evidence from CFO Style

Posted: 13 Mar 2018

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Kerstin Lopatta

University of Hamburg - Faculty of Business, Economics, and Social Sciences

Felix Canitz

University of Oldenburg

Date Written: February 16, 2018

Abstract

Recent accounting research examines the impact of the individual style of corporate decision-makers on corporate accounting policies. Based on this line of research, we explore how a chief financial officer’s (CFO) preference for accounting conservatism affects accounting quality. We provide evidence that CFOs significantly influence accounting conservatism at firm level and find that firms with a conservative CFO are less likely to restate their annual accounts and to receive an SEC comment letter addressing their 10-K filings. Our results are robust to a variety of sensitivity checks and hold independently of the economic consequences of restatements, firm-level accounting conservatism, the use of different proxies for accounting quality, and CFO conservatism. Also, our results are unaffected by the enactment of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act (SOX).

Keywords: Accounting Quality, Accounting Conservatism, CFO, CFO Style

JEL Classification: G34, M14, M41, M51

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jeong-Bon and Lopatta, Kerstin and Canitz, Felix, Restatement Likelihood and Accounting Conservatism: Evidence from CFO Style (February 16, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3132027
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,128
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies