Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Distortionary Taxation

24 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2018 Last revised: 15 May 2025

Elizabeth Chorvat

University of Notre Dame Mendoza College of Business

Date Written: August 03, 2018

Abstract

This paper is intended to offer a modest extension to the common understanding of the common agency model, originally developed in the trade literature to describe interactions between interests groups and politicians, but as applied in recent years to lobbying as it relates to tax policy. The prevailing understanding of the model, and notably as articulated by Dixit, Grossman, and Helpman, is that the government will always adopt efficient policies. The main contribution of this paper is the demonstration that, by introducing the issue of collective action problems in lobbying to the common agency model, we would not expect to observe efficient tax instruments such as lump-sum taxation. That is, we should actually expect to observe distortionary forms of taxation and subsidies, even though they do not maximize total surplus. Moreover, and perhaps paradoxically, we see that distortionary tax instruments may actually result in a higher level of efficiency than non-distortionary instruments.

Keywords: Optimal Taxation, Quasi-Linear Equilibrium, Lump-Sum Taxation, Common Agency, Distortionary Taxation

JEL Classification: D31, D63, H21, H23, D62

Suggested Citation:

Chorvat, Elizabeth, Optimal Distortionary Taxation (August 03, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3132844 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3132844
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,680
RANK
812,529
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies