Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Corporate Governance on Firm Performance: Empirical Evidence from India

IMPACT: International Journal of Research in Humanities, Arts and Literature (IMPACT: IJRHAL) ISSN (P): 2347-4564; ISSN (E): 2321-8878 Vol. 6, Issue 2, Feb 2018, 209-218

10 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2018

Aswathy Mohan

Alagappa University, Institute of Management, Students

S. Chandramohan

Alagappa University - Institute of Management

Date Written: March 3, 2018

Abstract

The study of corporate governance is gaining momentum as corporate governance compliance has been made mandatory. Even though made mandatory, the number of corporate governance issues are on the rise. The high profile scandals in Enron, World Com and also the Satyam scandal, Tata Mistry issues in India have also stimulated policy makers, investors, academicians and other stakeholders. Innumerable studies have investigated the relationship between corporate governance factors and performance, Spanos (2005) argues that corporate governance has significant implications for the growth prospects of an economy. In spite of the numerous studies, the results rather remain inconclusive. The variables considered in the model are measures of firm performance like Return On Equity (ROE) and Price to Book ratio (PB ratio) and corporate governance characteristics which include board composition, board size and CEO duality. The model used for analysis also included certain firm specific variables. These firm specific variables are financial leverage, asset turnover and growth in sales. To investigate the impact of corporate governance structure on firm performance, the study used a panel data OLS regression model for a sample of 30 firms quoted in the Bombay Stock Exchange. The results of the panel data analysis show that the CG factor, namely CEO duality and board size has a significant negative impact on firm performance whereas board composition revealed no significant impact on firm performance. It reveals that there is a need to undertake the monitoring process to lead to superior firm performance and indicates the need for firms to separate the post of CEO and Chair in order to ensure optimal performance. The results also suggest the leverage and asset turnover to have a significant positive impact on firm performance. The results may not be conclusive, as the inclusion of other corporate governance and performance variables would also be considered. Moreover, the corporate governance impacts on firm performance may vary from one industry to another which is another area that can be examined.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Board Size, Board Composition, CEO Duality, Financial Performance

JEL Classification: G32, G34, L25

Suggested Citation:

Mohan, Aswathy and Chandramohan, S., Impact of Corporate Governance on Firm Performance: Empirical Evidence from India (March 3, 2018). IMPACT: International Journal of Research in Humanities, Arts and Literature (IMPACT: IJRHAL) ISSN (P): 2347-4564; ISSN (E): 2321-8878 Vol. 6, Issue 2, Feb 2018, 209-218, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3133491
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
G A Afrifa
WorkingcapitalmanagementandAIMlistedSMEcompanies'profitability:amixed research method approach Posted: 2013
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Firm performance and mechanisms to control agency problems between managers and shareholders
Journal of Financial and QuantitativeAnalysis , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
Crossref
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Board composition: balancing family influence in S&P 500 firms
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 49 , issue 2 , p. 209 - 237 Posted: 2004
M Arnegger , C Hofmann , K Pull , K Vetter
Firm size and board diversity
Journal of Management & Governance , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1109 - 1135 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,879
ABSTRACT VIEWS
14,043
RANK
4,418
2 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies