Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Intellectual Capital: Evidence From Gulf Cooperation Council Countries

Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal Volume 22, Number 1, 2018

12 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2018

Abdalmuttaleb Musleh Al-Sartawi

Ahlia University

Date Written: March 3, 2018

Abstract

Corporate governance is considered as a management mechanism tool which enhances the ability of firms in disclosing relevant information for decision makers. Subsequently, good corporate governance enriches financial statements by reporting information regarding intellectual capital which indicates the ability of firms in managing their own assets and reflecting their value. Accordingly, the current research focuses on the relationship of corporate governance with intellectual capital disclosure in the GCC Countries. A regression model was developed to measure the relationship between the variables. The results showed that the total level of intellectual capital was 73% and the level of corporate governance applied by the GCC firms was 78%. Moreover, the findings indicate that there is a weak negative relationship between CGL and ICL. The current research extended the previous studies conducted in the GCC Countries by using a wider checklist, using a larger sample (274) and conducting a comparison study among the all GCC countries. As a result, this paper is important as it seeks to contribute empirical evidence to the literature regarding the intellectual capital and corporate governance in developing countries, particularly in the GCC Countries.

Keywords: Intellectual Capital, Corporate Governance, Human Capital, Structural Capital, Relational Capital

JEL Classification: O34, E24, G32, E22

Suggested Citation:

Musleh Al-Sartawi, Abdalmuttaleb, Corporate Governance and Intellectual Capital: Evidence From Gulf Cooperation Council Countries (March 3, 2018). Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal Volume 22, Number 1, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3133547
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
F Abdulsalam , H Al-Qaheri , R Al-Khayyat
The intellectual capital performance of Kuwaiti banks: An application of VAIC TM1 model. I Business , volume 3 , p. 88 - 96 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Alhazaimeh , R Palaniappan , M Almsafir
The impact of corporate governance and ownership structure on voluntary disclosure in annual reports among listed jordanian companies
Procedia Social and Behavioral Sciences , volume 129 , p. 341 - 348 Posted: 2014
Crossref
R Alizadeh , S A N Chashmi , A J Bahnamiri
Corporate governance and intellectual capital
Management Science Letters , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 181 - 186 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Al-Khadash , H Aldeen , Abdalmuttaleb Al-Sartawi
The Capability of sarbanes-oxley act in enhancing the independence of the jordanian certified public accountant and its impact on reducing the audit expectation gap. An empirical investigation from the perspectives of auditors and institutional investors
Jordan Journal of Business Administration , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 294 - 315 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,855
RANK
274,044
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies