Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Direct Investment With Host Country Market Structures and Policy Implications

43 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2018

Masao Nakamura

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Anming Zhang

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Date Written: January 3, 2018

Abstract

In this paper, we consider models that describe foreign firms’ and host countries’ decisions on foreign direct investment (FDI) when host country product markets are characterized by certain types of market structures. We show that, under certain conditions, the host country and foreign parent firm (FP) are both better off in equilibrium if FP chooses to form a joint venture (JV) with a domestic partner in the host country, with some form of technology transfer, rather than have FP’s exclusive reliance on exporting to the host country. These results provide justification to China’s and some other host countries’ FDI policies in recent years. Our results also justify host countries with small open economies to resort to the introduction of new foreign competitors when they face their domestic markets suffering from monopolists’ abuse of market power. Canada, for example, is known to use inward FDI with limited foreign ownership as government policy tools for dealing with abusive domestic monopolists. Our welfare implications may be useful for evaluating such FDI-driven competition and other public policy issues. We also present an empirical example using data from Japan to test some of our empirical implications.

Keywords: Joint Venture; Foreign Direct Investment; Bargaining Power; Technology Spillover; Market Structure

JEL Classification: F23; C7; L2; F68

Suggested Citation:

Nakamura, Masao and Zhang, Anming, Foreign Direct Investment With Host Country Market Structures and Policy Implications (January 3, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3133488 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3133488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
W S Albrecht , L L Lookabill , J C Mckeown
The time series properties of annual earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 15 , p. 226 - 244 Posted: 1977
Crossref
S Balakrishnan , M P Koza
Information asymmetry, adverse selection and joint-ventures
Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization , volume 20 , p. 99 - 117 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Natalia Barbosa , Helen Louri
On the determinants of multinationals' ownership preferences: Evidence from Greece and Portugal
International Journal of Industrial Organization , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 493 - 515 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D Bennett , X Liu , D Parker , F Steward , K Vaidya
Technology transfer to China: A study of strategy in 20 EU industrial companies
International Journal of Technology Management , volume 21 , p. 151 - 176 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,889
RANK
407,330
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies