Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Market Reactions to Congressional Events Leading to the Passage of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012

39 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2018

Zabihollah Rezaee

University of Memphis - School of Accountancy

Jiwoo Ryou

West Virginia University

Lei Gao

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Date Written: March 2, 2018

Abstract

The American Taxpayer Relief Act (ATRA) was signed into law after the considerable congressional debate on January 2, 2013 to avert the fiscal cliff. We examine stock returns around major political and congressional events leading to the passage of the ATRA, which resulted in a partial resolution of the 2013 fiscal cliff and the government shutdown in 2013. We identify 18 congressional events associated with the fiscal cliff, the ATRA, and the partial government shutdown from November 7, 2012 to October 21, 2013. We find a positive stock market reaction on the days representing favorable steps toward averting the fiscal cliff, which threatened significant tax increases and spending cuts in the United States. We observe the opposite on days representing unfavorable initiatives that would have pushed the country over the fiscal cliff. We also find that some firm attributes and corporate governance measures are associated with the observed market reactions. Our results have policy, practical, and educational implications.

Keywords: 2013 Fiscal cliff, Market Reactions, American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, Government Shutdown, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: E62; H30; G12; G18

Suggested Citation:

Rezaee, Zabihollah and Ryou, Jiwoo and Gao, Lei, Capital Market Reactions to Congressional Events Leading to the Passage of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (March 2, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3133035 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3133035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
K.C. Lin , Jared A. Moore , David R. Tree
Advances in Taxation
, p. 1 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,842
RANK
517,938
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies