Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonprofit Governance: The Basics

52(4) Akron Law Review 971 (2018)

72 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2018 Last revised: 19 Dec 2019

Lawrence J. Trautman

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business; Texas A&M University School of Law (By Courtesy)

Janet Ford

Western Carolina University

Date Written: March 1, 2018

Abstract

Many nonprofit organizations are governed by boards of directors comprised of individuals who often have been invited to join the board based on their contributions of time and money. For many, this is either their first board membership or yet another conducted within an environment lacking the experience and structure of board governance typically found in a publicly-traded corporation. Accordingly, governance of many nonprofit enterprises presents both similarities and differences from the governance of a for-profit entity.

How is nonprofit governance different from that conducted in for-profit organizations? How do you build the best board for your nonprofit? What attributes and skills are required by law and what mix of experiences and talents will give you the best result? What are the commonly required director attributes that are a must for each board and how do you customize and fine-tune your efforts to achieve a high-performance board? Optimal board composition; achieving the best mix of director skills and experience, will depend on many enterprise-specific variables. Some of the most important of these for nonprofits include, but are not limited to: (1) enterprise lifecycle stage, (2) extent to which certain experiences and skills are mission critical (detailed understanding of target culture, mission, stakeholder composition, and risk; (3) unique technology dependence (social media); and (4) the need for capacity expansion (fundraising). Our goal in writing this paper is to provide: answers to these basic questions; a roadmap for the nonprofit enterprise faced with recruiting a board; a matrix methodology that every nominating committee and board can employ to systematically inventory their people assets, strengths and weaknesses, define their needs, explore their options; and provoke radical thinking about how any enterprise-specific system of governance may be improved by questioning existing fundamental assumptions.

Our article proceeds in six parts. First, we offer a few thoughts about nonprofits, their various missions and common challenges. Second, we discuss why good governance is important in a nonprofit setting and highlight examples of frauds that have been reported due to the absence of good governance. Third, we present a look at Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requirements imposed on nonprofits. Fourth, we explore the law of nonprofit corporate governance applicable to all directors serving on the board of a nonprofit. Fifth, we discuss board composition and committee structure. Sixth, we present a process that involves an inventory of current board strengths and weaknesses and then offer some thoughts about use of a matrix template to assist in discovering necessary board skills and experiences of board candidates. And last, we conclude.

Keywords: Audit, Board Committees, Board Selection, Corporate Governance, Directors, Ethics, Fraud, Gender, Internal Controls, IRS, Law, Lead Director, Leadership, Madoff, Nominating, Nonprofit, Ormerod-Trautman Cybersecurity Model, Philanthropy, Sandusky, Strategy, Succession

JEL Classification: H20, K22, L21, L30, L31, M14, M15, M3, M42, M48, O33

Suggested Citation:

Trautman, Lawrence J. and Ford, Janet, Nonprofit Governance: The Basics (March 1, 2018). 52(4) Akron Law Review 971 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3133818 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3133818
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
J. BANKING & FIN , volume 662 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Curtis J. Milhaupt
Nonprofit Organizations as Investor Protection: Economic Theory, and Evidence from East Asia
Yale Journal of International Law, Vol. 29, No. 169, 2004 Pages: 55 Posted: 1 Apr 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alicia Plerhoples
Representing Social Enterprise, 20 CLINICAL L. REV Posted: 2013
Dana Brakman Reiser
Charity Law’s Essentials
Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 167 Pages: 53 Posted: 29 Sep 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
4 Citations
Lawrence J. Trautman , Taft Dorman
Bitcoin as Asset Class
51 Pages · Posted: 24 Jul 2018 · Downloads: 917
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lawrence J. Trautman , Oliver Aho
Crowdfunding, Entrepreneurship, and Start-Up Finance
Entrepreneur & Innovation Exchange (EiX.org) (2019) · 32 Pages · Posted: 12 Oct 2018 · Last revised: 22 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 269
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Richard J. Hunter, Jr , John H. Shannon
A Primer on the Role of the University’s Attorney
Education Quarterly Reviews, Vol.3 No.1 (2020) · 10 Pages · Posted: 24 Jan 2020 · Downloads: 87
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Richard J. Hunter, Jr , John H. Shannon , Henry J. Amoroso , Hector R. Lozada
To Declare or Not to Declare [Bankruptcy]: That May Be the Question, A Tale of Bankruptcy in Higher Education
Education Quarterly Reviews, Vol.3 No.2 (2020) · 25 Pages · Posted: 11 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 93
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
596
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,067
RANK
104,066
4 Citations
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies