Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Ownership, Governance and Performance: Evidence From Asian Countries

Rathnayake, D. N., & Sun, G. (2017). Corporate Ownership, Governance and Performance: Evidence from Asian Countries. Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol 8(15), 28-36.

9 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2018

Dilesha Rathnayake

Shandong University of Technology; Dongbei University of Finance and Economics

Gang Sun

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: August 30, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates the relationship between corporate ownership, corporate governance and corporate performance in Asia such as China, India, Singapore, Pakistan, Malaysia and Sri Lanka. In addition, this study examines whether there is an impact of ownership structure and ownership concentration levels on firm’s performance. This study considers board size, shareholder’s independence and age of the corporation are used as corporate governance measures. Firm performance is measured by the return on assets (ROA) and return on equity (ROE) for the period 2016. Our finding suggests that corporate governance measures have significant positive relationships with ROA. We find that higher ownership concentration levels are positively related with corporate performance. Finally, we conclude that an increase in the quality of corporate governance may enhance corporate performance. The policy makers can improve the governance mechanism of the firms, which in turn enhance the performance of the firms.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Firm Performance, Corporate Ownership, Asia

JEL Classification: G15, G30

Suggested Citation:

Rathnayake, Dilesha and Sun, Gang, Corporate Ownership, Governance and Performance: Evidence From Asian Countries (August 30, 2017). Rathnayake, D. N., & Sun, G. (2017). Corporate Ownership, Governance and Performance: Evidence from Asian Countries. Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol 8(15), 28-36. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3134585
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
A A Abdallah , .-N , A K Ismail
Corporate governance practices, ownership structure, and corporate performance in the GCC countries
Journal of International Financial Markets Posted: 2016
Crossref
S Abdulla Al Mamun , Y Badir
Convergence of corporate governance in Malaysia and Thailand
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 2 - 21 Posted: 2014
Crossref
C Andres
Large shareholders and firm performance-An empirical examination of founding-family Research Journal of Finance and Accounting www.iiste.org ISSN Posted: 2008
Journal of corporate Finance , volume 8 , issue 15 , p. 431 - 445 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
365
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,129
RANK
186,854
1 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies