Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effective Internal Control in Business Relocation Process: A Conceptual Model

12 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2018

Juthamon Sithipolvanichgul

Thammasat University - Thammasat Business School

Date Written: October 15, 2012

Abstract

Relocation has gradually become a typical issue for many organisations. The reasons for those companies to be are, such as government restrictions on development, business growth, shortage of labour, etc. Although relocation of the business seems to have many advantages, the disadvantages due to it must not be overlooked. The involved disruption can cause serious consequence if the relocation is not effectively carried out. The business relocation can be limited by the restraints of an existing location and it becomes essential for all the business to be moved. “Badly organised and planned, with a lack of financial provision, it can ruin the business. The extent of prior planning needed for successful development in the new location is usually underestimated, even by the large firm.” (Haines,1970). It is necessary to smooth business operation during business relocation and has a well-organised plan for the whole relocation project. In this paper, the conceptual framework of internal control in business relocation process initially extended from the past literature and propose with eight steps; the relocation feasibility survey; selection of location; planning to move; financial analysis for relocation project planning; personnel policies; the local community and public relations; the transfer process and evaluate results of relocation.

Keywords: Business Relocation, Business Uncertainty, Internal Control

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Sithipolvanichgul, Juthamon, Effective Internal Control in Business Relocation Process: A Conceptual Model (October 15, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3134063 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3134063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
C F Andrew
Finishing a project -Organizing components of a major move
Eighth International Facility Management Conference and Exposition Posted: 1987-11
D A Attwood
The office relocation: Sourcebook a guide to Managing staff Throughout the move Posted: 1996
F Becker
Report prepared for International Facility Management Association Posted: 1987-11
A Buda
Relocation information: the property agent's view , volume 17 , p. 183 - 188 Posted: 1999-05
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,770
RANK
560,264
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies