Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Brighter Side of Being Socially Responsible: CSR Ratings and Financial Distress Among Chinese State and Non-State Owned Firms

Applied Economics Letters, Forthcoming

14 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2018

Yasir Shahab

School of Accounting, Xijing University

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Farid Ullah

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) - School of International Trade and Economics

Date Written: March 7, 2018

Abstract

We examine the effect of corporate social responsibility (CSR) quality ratings on the financial distress levels of Chinese enterprises by using the previously unexplored new China-specific Altman “ZChina Score” in the context of CSR and data from 749 firms over the 2009-2014 period. First, we find that CSR quality ratings significantly reduce Chinese firms’ distress levels. Second, we find that the ability of CSR to reduce distress levels in non-state-owned Chinese firms is higher than state-owned ones. Finally, we find similar results when we divide the data into high-low CSR ratings and levels of distress. Our results are robust to potential endogeneities.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Quality Ratings, Financial Distress, Altman Z China Score, State and Non-State Owned Firms, China

JEL Classification: G33, M14, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Shahab, Yasir and Ntim, Collins G. and Ullah, Farid, The Brighter Side of Being Socially Responsible: CSR Ratings and Financial Distress Among Chinese State and Non-State Owned Firms (March 7, 2018). Applied Economics Letters, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3136035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Al Abri , I Bi , X Mullally , C Hodges , A
Under what conditions does it pay to be sustainable? Sources of heterogeneity in corporate sustainability impacts
Economics Letters , volume 159 , p. 15 - 17 Posted: 2017
A Al-Hadi , B Chatterjee , A Yaftian , G Taylor , M Monzur Hasan
Corporate social responsibility performance, financial distress and firm life cycle: evidence from Australia
Accounting & Finance Posted: 2017
Crossref
E I Altman , L Zhang , J Yen
Corporate financial distress diagnosis in China Posted: 2007
N Attig , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami , J Suh
Corporate social responsibility and credit ratings
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 117 , issue 4 , p. 679 - 694 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,649
RANK
436,820
11 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies