Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Primacy of Fair Presentation: Evidence From Regulators and the Courts

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

25 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2018

Mark L. DeFond

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Clive S. Lennox

University of Southern California

Jieying Zhang

The University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: February 15, 2018

Abstract

Palmrose and Kinney (2017) (PK) claim that technical compliance with GAAP is sufficient to justify an unqualified audit opinion. We disagree. PK's view ignores "fair presentation," a concept equivalent to "faithful representation." Their "technical compliance" view portrays GAAP as a set of black and white rules and auditing as a box-checking exercise, contradicting guidance from the SEC, FASB, IASB, PCAOB, and the courts. We show that the compliance mindset advocated by PK is responsible for many audit failures, including Enron, WorldCom, and Lehman Brothers. PK's view has long been used by auditing firms and their expert witnesses in (unsuccessful) attempts to avoid legal liability. Unfortunately, it is also a view that has greatly damaged the credibility of the auditing profession.

Suggested Citation:

DeFond, Mark and Lennox, Clive and Zhang, Jieying, The Primacy of Fair Presentation: Evidence From Regulators and the Courts (February 15, 2018). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3136203
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
of Professional Conduct and Bylaws. AICPA, 2013. AS 1301. Communications with Audit Committees. PCAOB, 2015. AS 2811. The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. PCAOB , volume 3101 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R Ball
Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 323 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Craig , W Smieliauskas , Amernic , J
Fairness of Reporting, Acceptable Accounting Risk and the IASB's Conceptual Framework Review: Insights from the Enron Trial Posted: 2014
Chapter 1, The Objective of General Purpose Financial Reporting
Qualitative Characteristics of Useful Financial Information. FASB Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,483
RANK
223,562
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies