Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CFO Narcissism and Financial Reporting Quality

Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 55, No. 5, 2017

Posted: 12 Mar 2018

Charles (Chad) Ham

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Mark H. Lang

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Nicholas Seybert

University of Maryland - Department of Accounting & Information Assurance

Sean Wang

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Accounting Department

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 1, 2017

Abstract

We investigate the effect of CFO narcissism, as measured by signature size, on financial reporting quality. Experimentally, we validate that narcissism predicts misreporting behavior, and that signature size predicts misreporting through its association with narcissism. Empirically, we examine notarized CFO signatures and find CFO narcissism is associated with more earnings management, less timely loss recognition, weaker internal control quality, and a higher probability of restatements. The results are consistent for within-firm comparisons focusing on CFO changes and are robust to controlling for CFO overconfidence and CEO narcissism. The results highlight the importance of CFO characteristics in the domain of financial reporting decisions.

Keywords: ﬁnancial reporting quality; narcissism; CFO; CEO; executives; accruals; real earnings management; internal controls; restatements; conservatism

JEL Classification: G32; H32; M12; M40; M41

Suggested Citation:

Ham, Charles and Lang, Mark H. and Seybert, Nicholas and Wang, Sean, CFO Narcissism and Financial Reporting Quality (December 1, 2017). Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 55, No. 5, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3136026
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,069
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies