Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unexpected SEC Resource Constraints and Comment Letter Quality

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Mays Business School Research Paper No. 3137092

Posted: 19 Mar 2019

Matthew Ege

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Jennifer L. Glenn

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

John R. Robinson

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 15, 2019

Abstract

We investigate whether reviews of transactional filings by the SEC unexpectedly constrain SEC resources leading to lower quality comment letters for periodic reports. The Sarbanes Oxley Act requires the SEC to review periodic reports (e.g., 10-Ks) at least once every three years. However, the SEC also reviews transactional filings (e.g., IPOs and acquisitions), which are unpredictable and often occur in waves. We find comment letters for periodic reports are of lower quality (in terms of outputs, inputs, and firm responses) during periods of abnormally high transactional filings. We also find that comment letters issued during periods of abnormally high versus low transactional filings are associated with increased information asymmetry and lower earnings response coefficients in the quarter after the resolution of the comment letter. Overall, our results suggest that unexpected resource constraints affect the quality of SEC oversight of periodic reports.

Keywords: SEC Comment Letters, SEC Resource Constraints, Financial Reporting Quality

JEL Classification: G18, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ege, Matthew and Glenn, Jennifer L. and Robinson, John R., Unexpected SEC Resource Constraints and Comment Letter Quality (February 15, 2019). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Mays Business School Research Paper No. 3137092, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3137092 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3137092
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,442
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies