Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creditor Rights and Bank Losses

Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis

56 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2018 Last revised: 28 May 2020

Amanda Heitz

A.B. Freeman School of Business Tulane University

Ganapathi S. Narayanamoorthy

Tulane University - Accounting & Taxation

Date Written: May 27, 2020

Abstract

We develop hypotheses regarding the association between two types of creditor rights and bank loan losses. Contrary to prior research conclusions, bank lending risk is negatively associated with both restrictions on reorganization and the secured creditor being paid first. Using accounting disclosures, we develop novel empirical measures of the probability of default (PD) and loss given default (LGD) at the loan portfolio-level. Different types of creditor rights have differential effects pertaining to PD and LGD and exhibit significant intertemporal variation. We corroborate our cross-country findings using the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act shock to creditor rights.

Keywords: Creditor Rights, loan loss reserves, bankruptcy

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Heitz, Amanda and Narayanamoorthy, Ganapathi S., Creditor Rights and Bank Losses (May 27, 2020). Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3137144 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3137144
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
U Bhattacharya , H Daouk
The World Price of Insider Trading
The Journal of Finance , volume 57 , p. 75 - 108 Posted: 2002
Crossref
U Bhattacharya , H Daouk
When No Law is Better Than a Good Law
Review of Finance , volume 13 , p. 577 - 627 Posted: 2009
Crossref
John H. Boyd , Hendrik Hakenes , Amanda Heitz
Creditor Rights, Information Sharing, and Borrower Behavior: Theory and Evidence
Pages: 60 Posted: 1 Dec 2016 Last revised: 24 Jan 2022
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Brown , T Jappelli , M Pagano
Information Sharing and Credit: Firm-level Evidence from Transition Countries
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 18 , p. 151 - 172 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,074
RANK
306,185
2 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies