Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Taxman Cometh: Does Tax Uncertainty Affect Corporate Cash Holdings?

Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 22, No. 3, 2017

47 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2018

Michelle Hanlon

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Edward L. Maydew

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Daniel Saavedra

UCLA Anderson School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 2017

Abstract

We examine whether firms hold more cash in the face of tax uncertainty. Because of gray areas in the tax law and aggressive tax avoidance, the total amount of tax that a firm will pay is uncertain at the time it files its returns. The tax authorities can challenge and disallow the firm’s tax positions, demanding additional cash tax payments. We hypothesize that firms facing greater tax uncertainty hold cash to satisfy these potential future demands. We find that both domestic firms and multinational firms hold larger cash balances when subject to greater tax uncertainty. In terms of economic significance, we find that the effect of tax uncertainty on cash holdings is comparable to that of repatriation taxes. Our evidence adds to knowledge about the real effects of tax avoidance and provides a tax-based precautionary explanation for why there is such wide variation in cash holdings across firms.

Keywords: Cash Holdings; Tax Avoidance; Tax Uncertainty; FIN 48; Disclosures; Long-Run Repatriation Tax Costs

JEL Classification: G30; G32; H25

Suggested Citation:

Hanlon, Michelle and Maydew, Edward L. and Saavedra, Daniel, The Taxman Cometh: Does Tax Uncertainty Affect Corporate Cash Holdings? (September 2017). Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 22, No. 3, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3137221
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
29 Citations
Martin Jacob , Kelly Wentland , Scott Wentland
Real Effects of Tax Uncertainty: Evidence from Firm Capital Investments
71 Pages · Posted: 3 Nov 2014 · Last revised: 1 Jul 2021 · Downloads: 1,412
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Stevanie S. Neuman , Thomas C. Omer , Andrew P. Schmidt
Assessing Tax Risk: Practitioner Perspectives
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 64 Pages · Posted: 18 Mar 2015 · Last revised: 4 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 1,137
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Daniel Saavedra , John S. Hughes
The Information Content of Forgoing Tax Refunds: Evidence from Private Debt Contracts
54 Pages · Posted: 4 Mar 2016 · Last revised: 23 Mar 2019 · Downloads: 231
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jeong-Bon Kim , Bing Li , Zhenbin Liu , Liandong Zhang
Debtor-Creditor Relationship and Corporate Tax Planning: Evidence from Initiation of Credit Default Swaps Trading
61 Pages · Posted: 21 Jul 2016 · Last revised: 10 May 2019 · Downloads: 479
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,838
RANK
18,305
29 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies