Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Internal M&A Teams in Takeovers

Review of Finance, forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2018 Last revised: 27 Oct 2020

Nihat Aktas

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Audra Boone

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Finance & Real Estate; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Alexander Witkowski

WHU-Otto Beisheim School of Management; WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Guosong Xu

Rotterdam School of Management, Erasmus University

B. Burcin Yurtoglu

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: October 26, 2020

Abstract

This paper provides insights into the inner workings of internal corporate M&A teams using survey evidence from 65 firms from Austria, Germany, and Switzerland. We find that internal teams create value, especially relative to external advisors, by directing transaction rationales, screening targets, and employing performance metrics to assess post-merger success. Teams emphasizing economic rationales as a merger motive are associated with higher returns than those teams more apt to consider behavioral motives. We consider several team characteristics and find that financial experience is the most persistent and significant attribute in explaining the outcomes across various deal stages. Another key result from our survey-based evidence is that latent M&A team factors explain approximately 54% of the acquirer fixed effects in announcement return regressions.

Keywords: Mergers and acquisitions, Internal M&A teams, Financial advisors, Takeover process, Acquirer returns

JEL Classification: G14, G34

Suggested Citation:

Aktas, Nihat and Boone, Audra and Witkowski, Alexander and Witkowski, Alexander and Xu, Guosong and Yurtoglu, B. Burcin, The Role of Internal M&A Teams in Takeovers (October 26, 2020). Review of Finance, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3140400 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3140400
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
P R Rau
Investment bank market share, contingent fee payments, and the performance of acquiring firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 56 , p. 293 - 324 Posted: 2000
M Rhodes-Kropf , Robinson , D T
The market for mergers and the boundaries of the firm
Journal of Finance , volume 63 , p. 1169 - 1211 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M Rhodes-Kropf , S Viswanathan
Market valuation and merger waves
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 2685 - 2718 Posted: 2004
Crossref
P G Savor , Q Lu
Do stock mergers create value for acquirers
Journal of Finance , volume 64 , p. 1061 - 1097 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,925
RANK
41,346
18 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies