Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
PCAOB Inspection Reports and Shareholder Ratification of the Auditor

Accounting and the Public Interest, Vol. 17, No. 1, 2017

23 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2018

Myungsoo Son

California State University, Fullerton - Department of Accounting

HakJoon Song

California State University, Dominguez Hills

Youngkyun Park

University of Idaho - College of Business & Economics

Date Written: December 2017

Abstract

We examine the effect of unfavorable PCAOB inspection reports, which contain audit deficiencies related to GAAS and/or GAAP violations, on shareholder voting for the auditor ratification. We further investigate whether shareholders likely vote against ratification for the auditors receiving deficiency reports in a weak corporate governance environment. Overall, we do not find evidence that shareholders vote against auditor ratifications when their auditors receive unfavorable inspection reports. However, we find some evidence that shareholders cast their votes against the ratifications of auditors receiving unfavorable inspection reports when the corporate governance is weak, as proxied by CEO duality and a low level of board diligence. Our results suggest that shareholders seem not to incorporate inspection reports as a potential proxy for auditor quality in their vote decisions on auditor ratification.

Keywords: PCAOB inspection reports; audit deficiency; shareholder ratification

Suggested Citation:

Son, Myungsoo and Song, HakJoon and Park, Youngkyun, PCAOB Inspection Reports and Shareholder Ratification of the Auditor (December 2017). Accounting and the Public Interest, Vol. 17, No. 1, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3140825
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , T C Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from stakeholder reaction to GAAP-deficient PCAOB inspection reports
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements: A study of the efficacy of certain Blue Ribbon Committee recommendations
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Audit Committee Transparency Barometer Posted: 2016
W R Baber , L Liang , Z Zhu
Associations between internal and external corporate governance characteristics: Implications for investigating financial accounting restatements
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 219 - 237 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,584
RANK
601,090
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies