Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Risk Committee on Financial Performance of UK Financial Institutions

International Journal of Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming

30 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2018

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Ismail Benyazid

Asmarya University

Date Written: March 2018

Abstract

Following the recent financial crisis, Walker (2009) recommended that financial institutions should form a separate board level risk committee (RC) to manage various risks and prevent excessive risk taking. This research focuses on investigating how firms with separate risk committees differ from those that do not have one. The main research question we address is whether RCs have a fundamental influence on financial performance. We measure financial performance by ROA and ROE and we control for firm size, liquidity and gearing. Our sample consists of all listed financial institutions in FTSE-100 index from 2010 through 2014. Results indicate a negative relationship between risk committee characteristics (i.e., existence, size, independence, and meeting frequency) and financial performance. The results also indicate that firms without risk committee (RC) performed considerably well than firms with RC. The results are contradictory to Walker’s (2009) where RCs are recommended for their ability to mitigate and manage risks more expertly. However, we argue that establish strong RC constrain management ability to make excessive risk taking behaviour which may affect financial performance negatively. We contribute to the current research on the impact of risk committee governance attributes on financial performance after banking and governance reforms.

Keywords: Corporate Governance; Risk Management; Risk Committee; Financial Institutions; UK

JEL Classification: M41; G21; G34

Suggested Citation:

Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Benyazid, Ismail, The Impact of Risk Committee on Financial Performance of UK Financial Institutions (March 2018). International Journal of Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3140917
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
L J Abbott , S Parker
Auditor selection and audit committee characteristics
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R B Adams
Governance of banking institutions. Corporate Governance: A Synthesis of Theory, Research, and Practice , p. 451 - 468 Posted: 2010
V Aebi , G Sabato , M Schmid
Risk management, corporate governance, and bank performance in the financial crisis
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 36 , issue 12 , p. 3213 - 3226 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Al-Hadi , M M Hasan , A Habib
Risk committee, firm life cycle, and market risk disclosures
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 145 - 170 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
9 Citations
Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Collins G. Ntim , Hussein A. Abdou , Alaa Zalata , Mohamed Elmagrhi
The Impact of Multi-Layer Governance on Bank Risk Disclosure in Emerging Markets: The Case of Middle East and North Africa
Elamer, A.A., Ntim, C.G., Abdou, H.A., Zalata, A., & Elmagrhi, M. (2019) ‘The Impact of Multi-Layer Governance on Bank Risk Disclosure in Emerging Markets: The Case of Middle East and North Africa’, Accounting Forum, Forthcoming (Accepted 14th January 2019)., · 46 Pages · Posted: 18 Jan 2019 · Downloads: 107
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Engy Abdelhak , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Craig Mclaughlin , Aws Alhares
Auditors’ Ethical Reasoning in Developing Countries: The Case of Egypt
Forthcoming in Abdelhak, E., Elamer, A., & AlHares, A. (2019) ‘Auditors’ ethical reasoning in developing countries: The case of Egypt, International Journal of Ethics and Systems. (Accepted 7th June 2019). , · 52 Pages · Posted: 17 Jun 2019 · Downloads: 127
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Collins G. Ntim , Hussein A. Abdou , Chris Pyke
Sharia Supervisory Boards, Governance Structures and Operational Risk Disclosures: Evidence from Islamic Banks in MENA Countries
Global Finance Journal, Forthcoming · 44 Pages · Posted: 31 Jul 2019 · Downloads: 121
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ibrahem Alshbili , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer
The Influence of Institutional Context on Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure: A Case of a Developing Country
Journal of Sustainable Finance and Investment. Forthcoming · 44 Pages · Posted: 11 Oct 2019 · Downloads: 147
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
557
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,997
RANK
113,793
9 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies