Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk-Taking Incentives and Returns on R&D Investment

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper No. 18-19

52 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2018

Bruce K. Billings

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

James Moon

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Richard M. Morton

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Dana Wallace

University of Central Florida - School of Accounting

Date Written: March 15, 2018

Abstract

Traditional finance theory suggests that riskier investments should yield higher returns. Challenging this notion, anecdotal and empirical evidence suggests that highly-incented managers may take on excessive risk, leading to greater losses, while other theoretical research argues that high levels of option-based compensation may actually lead to greater risk aversion, resulting in lower return investment choices. Therefore, we assess whether incentives associated with stock option compensation (“vega”), presumed to increase managers’ appetite for risk, uniformly yield higher returns on R&D investment. Our results suggest that the return on R&D, as measured by future earnings and patent awards, varies concavely with vega. That is, low to moderate levels of vega correspond to increasing returns on R&D, consistent with vega inducing more profitable investments, but marginal returns decline as vega increases. Supplemental analyses suggest that these results are driven by greater risk aversion rather than excessive risk-taking. Overall, our results imply that risk-taking incentives (i.e., vega) may prove counterproductive.

Keywords: Executive Compensation, Managerial Incentives, Risk-Taking, Research and Development

JEL Classification: G31, G32, G34, G35, J33, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Billings, Bruce K. and Moon, James and Morton, Richard M. and Wallace, Dana, Risk-Taking Incentives and Returns on R&D Investment (March 15, 2018). Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper No. 18-19, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3141196 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3141196
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,291
RANK
315,603
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies