Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adequacy of Audit Committees: A Study of Deposit Banks in Turkey

Borsa Istanbul Review

16 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2018 Last revised: 23 Jun 2018

Mustafa Tevfik Kartal

Borsa Istanbul

Cemal Ibis

Isik University

Ozgur Catıkkas

Marmara University - School of Banking and Insurance

Date Written: June 2, 2018

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to investigate the adequacy of the audit committees in Turkish Banking Sector. Considering national and international legislation, and best practices, audit committees’ adequacy involves the issues regarding committees and the responsibilities of committees. Interviews and questionnaires in 6 deposit banks were carried out to investigate the adequacy of the audit committees. The data, collected through the interviews and questionnaires, were analyzed by frequency analyses, alfa test and t-tests. According to the results, a variety of deficiencies were determined in the audit committees’ structure and responsibilities of internal control, risk management, accounting and financial reporting, independent auditing, valuation services, and rating bureaus. Although all the banks examined in the study were deposit banks, the adequacy of the audit committees varied according to the banks. Banks’ board of directors and the audit committees should update their approach in order to carry out their duties more efficiently.

Keywords: Audit committees, Committee adequacy, Committee responsibility, Interview, T-test, Turkish banking sector

JEL Classification: G21, M42

Suggested Citation:

Kartal, Mustafa Tevfik and Ibis, Cemal and Catıkkas, Ozgur, Adequacy of Audit Committees: A Study of Deposit Banks in Turkey (June 2, 2018). Borsa Istanbul Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3143098
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
M Abdullatif , H Ghanayem , R Ahmad-Amin , S Al-Shelleh , L Sharaiha
The performance of audit committees in Jordanian public listed companies
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 762 - 773 Posted: 2015
Crossref
; _ Active , Istanbul
Condition of sustainable corporate governance "efficiency Posted: 2003
H Akbulut
The role of audit committee in achieving auditing effectiveness: A study on external auditing firms (Unpublished Phd's Thesis) Posted: 2010
T Aksoy
Basel and internal control Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
759
6 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies