Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Attracting the Sharks: Corporate Innovation and Securities Class Action Lawsuits

European Corporate Governance Institute - Finance Working Paper No. 614/2019

65 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2018 Last revised: 14 Jan 2022

Elisabeth Kempf

Harvard University - Business School (HBS); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Oliver G. Spalt

University of Mannheim - Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 26, 2020

Abstract

This paper provides novel evidence suggesting that securities class action lawsuits, a central pillar of the U.S. litigation and corporate governance system, can constitute an obstacle to valuable corporate innovation. We first establish that valuable innovation output makes firms particularly vulnerable to costly low-quality class action litigation. Exploiting judge turnover in federal courts, we then show that changes in class action litigation risk affect the value and number of patents filed, suggesting firms take into account that risk in their innovation decisions. A new perspective we provide is that innovation success, not only innovation failure, can increase firms’ securities class action litigation risk.

Keywords: Corporate Governance; Law and Economics; Innovation; Patents; Shareholder Litigation; Class Action Lawsuit

JEL Classification: G38, K22, K41, O31, O32

Suggested Citation:

Kempf, Elisabeth and Spalt, Oliver G., Attracting the Sharks: Corporate Innovation and Securities Class Action Lawsuits (September 26, 2020). European Corporate Governance Institute - Finance Working Paper No. 614/2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3143690 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3143690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
David Abrams , Ufuk Akcigit , Jillian Grennan
Patent value and citations: Creative destruction or strategic disruption? Posted: 2019
Janet Alexander , Cooper
Do the merits matter: A study of settlements in securities class actions
Stanford Law Review , volume 43 Posted: 1991
Ashiq Ali , Sanjay Kallapur
Securities price consequences of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and related events
The Accounting Review , volume 76 , p. 431 - 460 Posted: 2001
Letter to the Committee on the Judiciary of the U.S. House of Representatives, Re: Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act of Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,074
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,734
RANK
47,121
1 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies