Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Review of Financial Performance Analysis of Corporate Organizations

Asian Journal of Management. 9(1): January- March, 2018

7 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2018 Last revised: 24 Jun 2022

Bismark Maka

M S Ramaiah University of Applied Sciences

Suresh N.

M S RAMAIAH UNIVERSITY OF APPLIED SCIENCES

Date Written: March 18, 2018

Abstract

The work expatiated on the concept of financial performance and its analysis. It also captured relevant stakeholders for financial performance information. The review sought to encapsulate the existing state of knowledge on financial performance evaluations from previously published works. It also highlighted gaps in the reviewed literatures. Two dimensions of existing literature were explored; namely financial performance of companies, regardless of the location or industry, as well as those specific to companies in Ghana and particularly to the telecommunications sector. Of all the existing works reviewed, 54 percent captured literature in the first category described above and the remaining 46 percent was on the second category. It was revealed after the review, that three different methodologies or approaches were adopted in evaluating financial performance of firms. The first approach employed the use of financial ratios either overtime within firm, or between different firms for comparative analysis. Another strand of the surveyed works examined the impacts of selected indicators like capital structure and operational practices like Just-In-Time (JIT) systems on financial performance. A third approach employed metrics from internal key performance indicators to examine a firm’s financial performance. It was ascertained that majority of existing literatures in the field and on the topic deployed the first two approaches.

Keywords: Financial Performance, Key Performance Indicators, Metrics, Telecommunication, Operational Practices

Suggested Citation:

Maka, Bismark and Narayanarao, Suresh, Review of Financial Performance Analysis of Corporate Organizations (March 18, 2018). Asian Journal of Management. 9(1): January- March, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3143164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Corporate governance mechanisms and firm financial performance in
Ahmadu Sanda et al Posted: 2005-01
Reza Tehrani
A Model for Evaluating Financial Performance of Companies by Data Envelopment Analysis , volume 5 Posted: 2012
K B Sumninder , C Samiya
Financial Performance of Life Insurers in Indian Insurance Industry
Pacific Business Review International , volume 6 , issue 5 Posted: 2013
Amalendu Bhunia et al. Financial Performance Analysis-A Case Study
Current Research Journal of Social Sciences , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 269 - 275 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,584
RANK
508,348
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies