Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Initiations and Information Content - Revisited

9th Conference on Financial Markets and Corporate Governance (FMCG) 2018

73 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2018 Last revised: 23 Nov 2021

Balasingham Balachandran

Monash University - Monash University Malaysia; Financial Research Network (FIRN); La Trobe University - School of Economics and Finance

Michael Theobald

University of Birmingham - Department of Accounting and Finance

Yun (Tracy) Zhou

Dept. of Economics and Finance, La Trobe University

Date Written: November 23, 2021

Abstract

We examine the operating performance subsequent to dividend initiations by comparing firms with similar pre-event operating performance and growth opportunities. We find significantly positive abnormal operating performance for each year from the year of DI to three years after for dividend initiations in the post-tax cut period, whereas we find only significantly positive abnormal operating performance for the year of and year after for DIs in the pretax cut period, indicating strong (weak) support for the information content hypothesis for the post (pre) tax cut period. We also utilize Cox-proportional hazard regressions and find support for information content in the post-tax cut period. Further, we show that abnormal operating performances are positively related to post announcement long run abnormal returns for both the pre- and post-tax periods, indicating that the information content of dividend initiations regarding future earnings is reflected in the long-term reaction.

Keywords: Dividend initiations, abnormal operating performance, Information content, long term stock returns

JEL Classification: G14, G35

Suggested Citation:

Balachandran, Balasingham and Theobald, Michael F. and Zhou, Yun (Tracy), Dividend Initiations and Information Content - Revisited (November 23, 2021). 9th Conference on Financial Markets and Corporate Governance (FMCG) 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3143691 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3143691
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
F Allen , R Michaely , G M Constantinedes , M Harris , R Stulz
Payout policy
Handbook of the Economics of Finance , volume 1 , p. 337 - 429 Posted: 2003
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
P Asquith , D W Mullins
The impact of initiating dividend payments on shareholders' wealth
The Journal of Business , volume 56 Posted: 1983
A J Auerbach , K A Hassett
Dividend Taxes and Firm Valuation: New Evidence
American Economic Review , volume 96 , p. 119 - 123 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,614
RANK
560,264
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies