Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Partnership Law and Its Spawn

Change Management: An International Journal, Volume 17, Issue 1

Posted: 29 Mar 2018

Kevin McMeeking

University of Exeter Business School - Department of Finance

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Dalice Sim

University of Otago

Date Written: March 22, 2017

Abstract

Institutional theory discusses whether organizations enhance their survival by converging around socially legitimated forms.

This study contributes to this literature by examining the evolution of strategic choices among mid-tier and large accounting firms. The results show that the change in percentage of income from audit activities is different for the partnership and LLP firms over the period 2005–2013. Inflation adjusted fees per partner are not statistically significantly different from 2005 to 2013.

The results suggest that a spread of offices, specialisation, and the degree of hierarchy lead to efficiencies of operations and wealth enhancement (through changes in fees per partner), but LLP choice per se does not necessarily increase fees.

Keywords: LLP, Big 4, Limited Liability Partnerships, Audit Fees

JEL Classification: M40, L22

Suggested Citation:

McMeeking, Kevin and Baskerville, Rachel F. and Sim, Dalice, Partnership Law and Its Spawn (March 22, 2017). Change Management: An International Journal, Volume 17, Issue 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3146706
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
999
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies