Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is it Worthwhile to Augment the Legal Protection of Public Debt Placed by Privately Held Companies?

42 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2018 Last revised: 3 Dec 2019

Keren Bar-Hava

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Jerusalem School of Business Administration

Roi Katz

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Jerusalem School of Business Administration

Beni Lauterbach

Bar-Ilan University - Graduate School of Business Administration; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 22, 2018

Abstract

We examine the effects of a law amendment in Israel in 2011 that imposes a set of minimum corporate governance standards on privately held firms that issue publicly traded bonds. Two main results emerge. First, consistent with US evidence, the improved bondholder protection boosts the immediate market valuation of private firms' bonds. Second, the amendment suppresses the private bonds' IPO market. The number of privately held firms issuing public debt for the first time decreases sharply after the amendment enactment. This unintended result of the amendment illustrates the pitfall of legal intervention.

Keywords: Debt of privately held companies, corporate governance improvements, Regulatory reforms in bond markets

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Bar-Hava, Keren and Katz, Roi and Lauterbach, Beni, Is it Worthwhile to Augment the Legal Protection of Public Debt Placed by Privately Held Companies? (March 22, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3147144 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3147144
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Menachem (Meni) Abudy , Avi Wohl
Corporate Bond Trading on a Limit Order Book Exchange
Pages: 45 Posted: 10 Mar 2016 Last revised: 15 Jul 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
V Acharya , Y Amihud , L Litov
Creditor rights and corporate risk taking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , p. 150 - 166 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Anderson , S Mansi , D Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the agency cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , R Lafond
The effect of corporate governance of firms' credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,477
RANK
467,197
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies