Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management, Effective Tax Rate (ETR) and Book-Tax Gap (BTG)

Acc. Fin. Review 3 (1) 33 – 43 (2018)

11 Pages Posted: 11 May 2018

Jasrial

Universitas Terbuka

Susy Puspitasari

Universitas Terbuka

Ali Muktiyanto

Universitas Terbuka

Date Written: March 10, 2018

Abstract

Objective – This research examines the effect of company size, changes in out-cash flow, return on assets, conservatism, and profit levelling on earnings management.

Methodology/Technique – The results of this research show that banking capital structure, capital intensity, intensity of inventory, and intensity of R & D have a significant impact on effective tax rates. Further, the results also show that, with respect to the non-banking sector, R & D expenditure contributes significantly to effective tax rates. Simultaneously, earnings management and effective tax rates, as well as other factors, also have an effect on book tax gap.

Findings – This study shows that profit management has a significantly positive effect on book tax gap, and effective tax rates has a significant negative effects o book tax gap. In terms of the non-banking sector, earnings management and effective tax rate have no effect on book tax gap. Deferred tax expenses have a lower capability to detect earnings management than accrual, in both the banking and non-banking sector.

Novelty – The study of management capabilities optimizes the role of book tax gap and effective tax rate for earning management. Both tax management and earnings management are closely related to behavior management in managing a company based on the agency theory.

Furthermore, the study identifies a relationship between earnings management and book tax gap.

Keywords: Book Tax Gap; Effective Tax Rate; Earnings Management; Accrual Total; Indonesia

JEL Classification: H26, M25

Suggested Citation:

Jasrial and Puspitasari, Susy and Muktiyanto, Ali, Earnings Management, Effective Tax Rate (ETR) and Book-Tax Gap (BTG) (March 10, 2018). Acc. Fin. Review 3 (1) 33 – 43 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3147832
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Dan S Dhaliwal , Micah Frankel , Robert Trezervant
Debt covenant violation and manipulation of accruals
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 Posted: 1994
A Ghozali
The Determination of Destination and Early Career Performances of Senior Secondary School Graduates in Indonesia. Dissertation. Department of Administrative and Policy Studies School of Education University of Pittsburg Acc
Fin. Review , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 38 - 48 Posted: 1998
S Gupta , K Dan Newberry
Determinant of the variability on corporate effective tax rate: evidence from longitudinal data
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Michelle Hanlon
The persistence and pricing of earnings, accrual and cash flows when firms have large book-tax differences
The Accounting Review , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 166 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,577
RANK
277,353
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies