Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance, State Ownership and Firm Performance: An Empirical Study of State-Owned Enterprises in Indonesia

Acc. Fin. Review 3 (1) 26 – 32 (2018)

7 Pages Posted: 11 May 2018

Chermian Eforis*

Universitas Multimedia Nusantara

Date Written: March 4, 2018

Abstract

Objective – The purpose of this research is to determine the effect of good corporate governance (GCG) on Indonesia’s SOEs and the influence of state ownership on company performance.

Methodology/Technique – This study examines State Owned Enterprises in Indonesia that were listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange between 2011 and 2015.

Findings – The empirical results show that GCG and state ownership both have a positive influence on the company's financial performance (in this case, Return On Assets). However, the percentage of state ownership has a negative effect on the relationship between Good Corporate Governance and Return On Assets.

Novelty – One agency cost is monitoring expenditure by the principal. Privatization is one way to improve the performance of SOEs. Privatization is believed to improve the performance of SOEs, as a result of increased supervision of the performance of SOEs in Indonesia.

Keywords: State Owned Enterprises; Good Corporate Governance; State Ownership; ROA; Indonesia

JEL Classification: G32, H70, G34

Suggested Citation:

Eforis, Chermian, Corporate Governance, State Ownership and Firm Performance: An Empirical Study of State-Owned Enterprises in Indonesia (March 4, 2018). Acc. Fin. Review 3 (1) 26 – 32 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3147810
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
E Astami , G Tower , R Rusmin , J Neilson
The effect of privatisation on performance of state-ownedenterprises in Indonesia
Asian Review of Accounting , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 19 Posted: 2010
Crossref
N Boubakri , J.-C Cosset , O Guedhami
Liberalization, corporate governance and the performance of privatized firms in developing countries
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 11 , p. 767 - 790 Posted: 2005
Crossref
L Brown , M Caylor
Corporate governance and firm valuation
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , p. 409 - 434 Posted: 2006
Crossref
F Barca , S Trento
State ownership and the evolution of Italian corporate governance
Industrial and Corporate Change , volume 6 , p. 533 - 559 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,740
RANK
304,916
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies