Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value and the Formation of Financial Market Prices Through Ignorance and Hazard

Chapter 16 in “The Routledge Companion to Fair Value in Accounting”, Gilad Livne & Garen Markarian eds. London and New York: Routledge (2018), ISBN: 9781138656505

15 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2018

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

Date Written: March 21, 2018

Abstract

Fair value refers to current values as the backbones of accounting measurements. Current value follows the efficient financial market (EFM) hypothesis - which abstracts away from economic realization - as guidance for the financial market investment process through ignorance and hazard. This chapter takes a systemic perspective on the formation of financial market prices over time and circumstances. Our financial system approach relaxes that EFM hypothesis by distinguishing and specifying both (i) the timely provision and treatment of firm-specific information, and (ii) the aggregating market price fixing that assures the ongoing matching between market orders which may depend on the latter information. From this systemic perspective, fair value regimes increase market volatility and market exuberance with inefficient allocative effects, although the correlation of accounting information with the market price series is improved.

Keywords: fair value, current value, historical cost, accounting measurement, accounting model, accounting information

JEL Classification: M41, D83, G14, D53, G41

Suggested Citation:

Biondi, Yuri, Fair Value and the Formation of Financial Market Prices Through Ignorance and Hazard (March 21, 2018). Chapter 16 in “The Routledge Companion to Fair Value in Accounting”, Gilad Livne & Garen Markarian eds. London and New York: Routledge (2018), ISBN: 9781138656505, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3147037
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
R N Anthony
Rethinking the rules of financial accounting: examining the rules for accurate financial reporting Posted: 2004
P J Arnold
Global financial crisis: the challenge to accounting research
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 34 , p. 803 - 809 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Y Biondi
Disagreement-based trading and speculation: implications for financial regulation and economic theory
Accounting, Economics and Law: A Convivium , volume 1
Crossref
Y Biondi
The pure logic of accounting: a critique of the fair value revolution
Accounting, Economics and Law: A Convivium , volume 1
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,819
RANK
340,852
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies