Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Coasian Firm and Insider Trading, Revisited

U of Texas Law, Law and Econ Research Paper No. 596

17 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2018 Last revised: 20 Jan 2021

James C. Spindler

University of Texas School of Law; McCombs School of Business, University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: March 15, 2018

Abstract

I present an economic model of insider trading, building upon Haddock & Macey’s (1986) classic analysis of trading by the manager of a Coasian firm (i.e., a firm in which agency costs do not exist). Due to current shareholders’ status as expected sellers of shares, Coasian insider trading allows shareholders to expropriate outsiders via the managerial proxy, and any signaling value of insider trading is eliminated by shareholders’ biased incentives. Adverse selection results. If a system of credible disclosure exists, an insider trading ban results in more disclosure, more efficient prices, and lower illiquidity costs. While the case for insider trading in the Coasian firm may be weak, insider trading can provide positive social benefits where some form of agency cost exists. Insights from the Coasian model include that shareholder incentives may lead to undesirable capital markets activity, greater agency costs may result in preferable social outcomes, and deterrent penalties must take into account shareholder incentives.

Keywords: insider trading, securities markets, liqudity, microstructure, securities fraud, disclosure, agency costs

JEL Classification: K22, G30, G14

Suggested Citation:

Spindler, James C., The Coasian Firm and Insider Trading, Revisited (March 15, 2018). U of Texas Law, Law and Econ Research Paper No. 596, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3147651 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3147651
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,343
RANK
697,608
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Texas School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies