Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal and External Determinants of Audit Delay: Evidence From Indonesian Manufacturing Companies

Acc. Fin. Review, 3(1) 16-25 (2018)

10 Pages Posted: 11 May 2018

Patricia Diana

Universitas Multimedia Nusantara

Maggy

Universitas Multimedia Nusantara

Date Written: February 21, 2018

Abstract

Objective – This study aims to examine and explain the relationship between a company’s internal factors such as profitability, solvency and audit committee, and external factors including complexity and size of public accounting firms, with audit delay.

Methodology/Technique – The importance of financial information is, in part, due to its utility for assessment of company performance. Hence, financial information should be produced and reported as quickly as possible each year.

Findings – This study finds that manufacturing companies with high debt levels and low profitability experience longer audit delay. Moreover, the results in this study show that debt level is the most influential and significant factor with a positive relationship to audit delay.

Novelty – This study shows that profitability, the number of members on an audit committees and public accounting firm (KAP) size all have an insignificant negative relationship with audit delay. Further, complexity has an insignificant positive relationship with audit delay.

Keywords: Profitability; Debt; Complexity; Audit Committees; Audit Delays

JEL Classification: M42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Diana, Patricia and Maggy, Internal and External Determinants of Audit Delay: Evidence From Indonesian Manufacturing Companies (February 21, 2018). Acc. Fin. Review, 3(1) 16-25 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3147803
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
H A E Afify
Determinants of audit report lag: Does implementing corporate governance have any impact? Empirical evidence from Egypt
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 56 - 86 Posted: 2009
S Agruningrum , M Wirakusuma
The effect of profitability, leverage, operating complexity, audit reputation and audit committee towards audit delay
Accounting E-Jurnal of Udayana University , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 251 - 270 Posted: 2013
J Al-Ajmi
Audit and reporting delays: Evidence from an emerging market
Advances in Accounting , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 217 - 226 Posted: 2008
Crossref
W Al-Ghanem , M Hegazy
An empirical analysis of audit delays and timeliness of corporate financial reporting in Kuwait
Eurasian Business Review , volume 1 , p. 73 - 90 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
465
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,900
RANK
141,557
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies