Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Directors With Foreign Experience and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence From China

44 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2018

Feng Cao

Hunan University - Business School

Jian Sun

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy

Rongli Yuan

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Date Written: December 26, 2017

Abstract

This study examines the impact of board directors with foreign experience (BDFEs) on stock price crash risk. We find that BDFEs help reduce crash risk. This association is robust to a series of robustness checks, including firm fixed effects model, Heckman procedure, instrumental variable estimation, propensity score matching (PSM) procedure, change analysis, and an exogenous shock. Moreover, we find that the imprinting effect and eyeball effect are the underlying mechanisms by which BDFEs affect crash risk. The results still hold after controlling for managerial ability of BDFEs and corporate governance effect. Our findings suggest that the characteristics of board directors matter for stock price crash risk.

Keywords: Board Directors, Foreign Experience, Stock Price Crash Risk, Imprinting Effect, Eyeball Effect

JEL Classification: G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Feng and Sun, Jian and Yuan, Rongli, Board Directors With Foreign Experience and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence From China (December 26, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3148447 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3148447
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
B Adhikari
Causal Effect of Analyst Following on Corporate Social Responsibility
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 41 , p. 201 - 217 Posted: 2016
Crossref
P C Andreou , C Antoniou , J Horton , C Louca
Corporate Governance and Firmspecific Stock Price Crashes
European Financial Management , volume 22 , p. 916 - 56 Posted: 2016
Crossref
P C Andreou , C Louca , A P Petrou
CEO Age and Stock Price Crash Risk
Review of Finance , volume 21 , p. 1287 - 325 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,919
RANK
345,746
2 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies