Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value-Relevance of Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from Short Selling

Posted: 30 Mar 2018

Zabihollah Rezaee

University of Memphis - School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 31, 2016

Abstract

We examine whether short sellers, as informed investors, take into consideration corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance and disclosure in the areas of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) sustainability in making investment decisions. We find that firms’ market value and future financial performance, measured by price per share, return on equity, and return on assets, are lower, whereas operating risk, measured by the standard deviation of return on equity and the standard deviation of return on assets, is higher for firms with low composite ESG scores. We detect a negative association between ESG scores and short selling, indicating that short sellers avoid firms with high ESG scores and tend to target firms with low ESG scores. We conclude that investors consider firms’ ESG scores as value relevant in making investment decisions and thus management should integrate CSR into strategic decisions and corporate reporting.

Keywords: sustainability performance, corporate social responsibility, short selling, value-relevance

JEL Classification: G32, M40

Suggested Citation:

Rezaee, Zabihollah, Value-Relevance of Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from Short Selling (March 31, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3148698
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,932
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies