Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Regulation in the Bitcoin Era

Stanford Journal of Law, Business, and Finance, Vol. 23, No. 2, 2018

Texas A&M University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 18-21

50 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2018 Last revised: 19 Feb 2019

William J. Magnuson

Texas A&M University School of Law

Date Written: March 23, 2018

Abstract

The recent decade has witnessed an extraordinary degree of innovation in the financial sector. Developments in financial technology, computing power, and networking theory have allowed decentralized online platforms such as Bitcoin to fundamentally change the way that financial services are provided. While these innovations have been applauded by many as bringing a welcome degree of competition to a sector long dominated by powerful incumbents, they also create a set of challenges for current financial regulation. How do fiduciary standards apply to algorithms? How does online finance affect the behavior of investors? And more generally, how can regulators monitor and constrain the financial industry when it is increasingly run by autonomous, dispersed computer networks? This Article argues that current financial regulation is inadequate to address the unique problems presented by the rise of Bitcoin and other fintech industries. In particular, these innovations raise concerns about the ability of financial regulation to promote three inter-related financial goals: the efficient allocation of capital, the protection of consumers, and the prevention of systemic risk. These goals, at the core of current approaches to financial regulation, are all challenged by fintech’s defining feature: its reliance on disembodied institutions and complex algorithms for its functioning. These traits render the traditional tools used by regulators to discipline markets—substantive behavioral obligations, the threat of sanctions, and the constraining effect of reputation—largely ineffective. The Article concludes by proposing a set of principles to guide lawmakers in designing a more effective financial regulatory structure for the Bitcoin era.

Keywords: Financial Regulation; Fintech; Corporate Law; Bitcoin; Cryptocurrencies

JEL Classification: K22; K23

Suggested Citation:

Magnuson, William J., Financial Regulation in the Bitcoin Era (March 23, 2018). Stanford Journal of Law, Business, and Finance, Vol. 23, No. 2, 2018, Texas A&M University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 18-21, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3148036
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
L Temp
Posted: 2009
Kenneth Ayotte , David A. Skeel
Bankruptcy or Bailouts?
Journal of Corporation Law, Vol. 35, p. 469, 2010, U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 09-11, Northwestern Law & Econ Research Paper No. 09-05 Pages: 30 Posted: 18 Mar 2009 Last revised: 9 Jun 2010
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C Michael , M Munger &amp; Richard , Salsman
Is "Too Big to Fail" Too Big?, 11 GEO
J.L. & PUB. POL'Y Posted: 2013
Arthur E Wilmarth
The Dodd-Frank Act: A Flawed and Inadequate Response to the Too-Big-To-Fail Problem, 89 OR
L. REV Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
979
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,724
RANK
53,902
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Texas A&M University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies