Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Best Interests in the Long Term: Fiduciary Duties and ESG Integration

90 University of Colorado Law Review 731 (2019)

71 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2018 Last revised: 19 Apr 2019

Susan N. Gary

University of Oregon - School of Law

Date Written: April 17, 2019

Abstract

Two persistent misconceptions continue to affect the way fiduciaries think about sustainable investing: (1) fiduciary duties block a fiduciary investor from considering environmental and social factors and (2) if a fiduciary investor engages in sustainable or responsible investing, the portfolio will suffer financially. An examination of socially responsible investing, ESG integration (an investment process that involves consideration of material environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors together with traditional financial metrics), corporate social responsibility, and impact investing, shows that neither of these assumptions is correct. Analyses of different forms of sustainable investing have found no necessary cost to a portfolio when sustainable funds are compared with traditional funds. The SEC already requires companies to report material information, and reporting standards developed by the Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN) are improving the understanding of the financial materiality of ESG factors.

Given the changes in finance, fiduciary duties also require examination. The duty to act as a prudent investor is of central importance, and the available data explains why a prudent investor should consider ESG information. Moreover, since the duty of impartiality protects future beneficiaries, that duty requires a long-term investment time horizon, increasing the need to take ESG factors into consideration. It follows that a prudent fiduciary investor not only may, but should, use ESG information in developing financial policy and decisions.

Keywords: Fiduciary Duties, ESG, Prudent Investor, Impact Investing, Impartiality, SRI, Social Responsibility, Sustainability, Endowments, Pensions

JEL Classification: G11

Suggested Citation:

Gary, Susan N., Best Interests in the Long Term: Fiduciary Duties and ESG Integration (April 17, 2019). 90 University of Colorado Law Review 731 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3149856 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3149856
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Glob Gri Standards , Reporting , Initiative
Posted: 2018-11-01
Adrian King &amp; Wim , Kpmg Bartels , Currents Of Change: The , Survey , Corporate , Reporting
201. Id. at 30. 202. Id. at 42. 203. Id. at 30. 204. Id Posted: 2015
The KPMG survey reports that 56 percent of the forty-five hundred N100 companies it surveyed included CR data in their annual reports
A L Clark Et , J Quoting , Bailey , Al , Focusing , On , Long-Term , Short-Termism
INSIGHTS FROM BUSINESS LEADERS, MCKINSEY AND COMPANY AND CANADA PENSION PLAN INVESTMENT BOARD , volume 3 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Susan N. Gary
Best Interests in the Long Term: Fiduciary Duties and ESG Integration
90 University of Colorado Law Review 731 (2019) · 71 Pages · Posted: 31 Mar 2018 · Last revised: 19 Apr 2019 · Downloads: 1,397
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mario La Torre , Fabiomassimo Mango , Arturo Cafaro , Sabrina Leo
Does the ESG Index Affect Stock Return? Evidence from the Eurostoxx50
Sustainability , volume 12 , issue 16 , p. 6387 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Pamela McElwee , Esther Turnhout , Mireille Chiroleu-Assouline , Jennifer Clapp , Cynthia Isenhour , Tim Jackson , Kelemen Eszter , Daniel Miller , Graciela Rusch , Joachim Spangenberg , Anthony Waldron , Rupert Baumgartner , Brent Bleys , Michael Howard , Eric Mungata , Irene Ring , Rui Ferreira dos Santos
Ensuring a Post-COVID Economic Agenda Tackles Global Biodiversity Loss
31 Pages · Posted: 10 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 215
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,397
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,593
RANK
32,274
3 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies