Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of the Internal Audit Function’s Assurance Versus Advisory Focus on the External Auditor’s Reliance Decision

45 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2018 Last revised: 21 Aug 2020

Dereck Barr-Pulliam

University of Louisville

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Nicole V.S. Ratzinger-Sakel

University of Hamburg

Date Written: March 26, 2018

Abstract

This study examines the extent to which external auditors (EAs) use the work of internal auditors. We explore this issue using a multi-year survey in a first instance from the chief audit executive’s (CAE) perspective and then validate our results using data from EAs. Furthermore, we introduce a new category of internal audit function (IAF) reliance indicators, namely the specific purpose(s) of the IAF. We first observe an overall positive association between the perceived EA reliance on and an assurance-related purpose of the IAF, whether the underlying focus is on internal control strength or risk management. Second, we observe an overall positive association between perceived EA reliance on and an advisory-related purpose of the IAF. However, neither a focus on the efficiency of controls nor of business processes separately influenced the reliance decision. Third, we observe similar perceptions of the intensity of EA reliance between our CAE and EA participants. This finding suggests that our perceptions from CAEs are a reliable proxy for EA intended behavior. We also find that relative to CAEs, EAs suggest they were most likely to rely on the IAF when it focused on risk management and least likely when the IAF focused on the efficiency of business processes. Lastly, we observe that either a balanced or an assurance-related purpose of the IAF, relative to an advisory-related purpose, is associated with higher perceived EA reliance. The findings of our study should be of interest to auditor practitioners, academics, and regulators.

Keywords: internal auditing, external audit, assurance, consulting, reliance

JEL Classification: M40, M42, G34, G32, M4, G3

Suggested Citation:

Barr-Pulliam, Dereck and Eulerich, Marc and Ratzinger-Sakel, Nicole V.S., The Effect of the Internal Audit Function’s Assurance Versus Advisory Focus on the External Auditor’s Reliance Decision (March 26, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3150063 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3150063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
L Abbott , D Barr-Pulliam , W L Busslep , S Parker
The real effects of internal audit function quality: Evidence from investment efficiency Posted: 2020
L J Abbott , S Parker
Audit committee characteristics and auditor choice
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2000
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Serving two masters: The association between audit committee internal audit oversight and internal audit activities. Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2010
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit assistance and external audit timeliness
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
320
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,203
RANK
215,929
2 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies