Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Structure and Bank Risk: The Effects of Crisis, Market Discipline and Regulatory Pressure

Networks Financial Institute Working Paper Series 2108-WP-03

41 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2018 Last revised: 26 Jul 2018

Dung Tran

Banking University Ho Chi Minh city; IPAG Business School

M. Kabir Hassan

University of New Orleans - College of Business Administration - Department of Economics and Finance

Reza Houston

Indiana State University - Scott College of Business

Date Written: March 27, 2018

Abstract

Using a large panel of US BHC over the 2001:Q1-2015:Q4, we investigate the risk-taking behaviors of banks within a comparison perspective – between public and private banks – where there exists substantial differences of asymmetry information and agency problems. We document evidence of greater stability of public banks versus their private peers. However, public banks become riskier than private banks during the last crisis. These findings suggest a mixed evidence of risk-taking mitigating role of listing status. Regulatory pressure is effective in limiting risk taking by undercapitalized public banks before, but not during the crisis, casting doubt the effectiveness of regulators during the turmoil times. Public banks with high franchise value expose to risk less than others during the crisis. Debtholders discipline is ineffective in curbing the risk-taking behavior of banks. Our study is of interest for regulators, policymakers who are in search of improving bank risk-taking behavior.

Keywords: bank listing status; risk taking; crisis; market discipline; regulatory pressure

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Tran, Dung and Hassan, M. Kabir and Houston, Reza, Ownership Structure and Bank Risk: The Effects of Crisis, Market Discipline and Regulatory Pressure (March 27, 2018). Networks Financial Institute Working Paper Series 2108-WP-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3150353 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3150353
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
José Abreu , Mohamed Azzim Filipe , Gulamhussen
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 22 , p. 54 - 65 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Viral V Acharya , Deniz Anginer , A. Joseph Warburton
The End of Market Discipline? Investor Expectations of Implicit Government Guarantees. SSRN Scholarly Paper
Social Science Research Network Posted: 2016
Viral V Acharya , Nada Mora
A Crisis of Banks as Liquidity Providers
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Viral V Acharya , Philipp Schnabl , Gustavo Suarez
Securitization without risk transfer
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 107 , p. 515 - 536 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Aysa Siddika , Razali Haron
Capital regulation and ownership structure on bank risk
Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 39 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Dung V. Tran , M. Kabir Hassan , Isabelle Girerd‐Potin , Pascal Louvet
ACTIVITY STRATEGIES, AGENCY PROBLEMS, AND BANK RISK
Journal of Financial Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 575 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,532
RANK
366,257
2 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies