Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Increased Mandated Disclosure Frequency and Price Formation: Evidence from the 8-K Expansion Regulation

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2018 Last revised: 11 Jul 2018

Jeff L. McMullin

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Brian P. Miller

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

Brady J. Twedt

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 26, 2018

Abstract

Regulators claim that increased mandated disclosure frequency should lead to more efficient price formation. However, analytical models suggest that mandating disclosure may actually impede the price formation process, and prior empirical studies have been unable to document a relation between mandatory disclosure and improved price formation. We re-examine this relationship using a recent SEC regulation that increased the frequency of mandated event disclosures in form 8-K. We show that price formation improves after the mandate, where firms with the largest increases in mandatory disclosure experience the greatest improvements in price formation. Our evidence is consistent with the idea that mandating an increase in the frequency that material events must be disclosed is associated with improved price formation.

Keywords: Regulation, Mandatory Disclosure, 8-K Filings, Price Formation

JEL Classification: D82, G38, M41, L51

Suggested Citation:

McMullin, Jeff L. and Miller, Brian P. and Twedt, Brady J., Increased Mandated Disclosure Frequency and Price Formation: Evidence from the 8-K Expansion Regulation (June 26, 2018). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3151607
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
401
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,067
RANK
168,133
11 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies