Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure and Corporate Governance: Empirical Insights on Neo-Institutional Framework From China

International Journal of Disclosure and Governance, pp 1–17, 2018

41 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2018

Yasir Shahab

School of Accounting, Xijing University

Professor Chengang Ye

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) - Business School

Date Written: March 5, 2018

Abstract

This study delves into an interesting nexus of corporate governance mechanism and corporate social responsibility (CSR) disclosure in the Chinese listed firms. This research edifies the prevailing literature by integration of neo-institutional theory and empirical examination of the impact of ownership structure and board characteristics on the “CSR Disclosure Score” for a longitudinal data of 1166 non-financial firms listed on Chinese stock exchanges for eight (8) years from 2008 to 2015. The empirical results based on panel data Generalized Least Squares (GLS) estimations divulge that state ownership and block ownership are negative predictors of the CSR disclosure while institutional ownership, board size, and board composition positively affect CSR disclosure in Chinese listed firms. The results fail to find a significant impact of CEO duality on CSR disclosure. The empirical findings of this study suggest practical guidelines to policymakers, government and corporations in their drive against the CSR concerns.

Keywords: CSR Disclosure, Corporate Governance, Neo-Institutional Theory, China

Suggested Citation:

Shahab, Yasir and Ye, Professor Chengang, Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure and Corporate Governance: Empirical Insights on Neo-Institutional Framework From China (March 5, 2018). International Journal of Disclosure and Governance, pp 1–17, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3153869
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
R V Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of good governance
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 376 - 387 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R V Aguilera , D E Rupp , C A Williams , J Ganapathi
Putting the S back in corporate social responsibility: A multilevel theory of social change in organizations
Academy of Management Review , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 836 - 863 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R V Aguilera , C A Williams , J M Conley , D E Rupp
Corporate governance and social responsibility: A comparative analysis of the UK and the US
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 147 - 158 Posted: 2006
Crossref
P Arora , R Dharwadkar
Corporate governance and corporate social responsibility (CSR): The moderating roles of attainment discrepancy and organization slack
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 136 - 152 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,193
RANK
469,965
7 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies