Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Related Party Transactions Affect Family Firm Valuations?

57 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2018 Last revised: 22 Dec 2022

Mark J. Kohlbeck

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Hye Seung (Grace) Lee

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Brian W. Mayhew

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Jesus M. Salas

Lehigh University - Department of Finance and Law

Date Written: December 2, 2022

Abstract

We examine the likelihood and value relevance of related party transactions in family firms. Based on an extensive hand-collected sample, we find that founder-led family firms are more likely to enter into related party transactions than other firms. We also find that the founder-led family firm valuation premium is reduced when these firms disclose related party transactions, especially opportunistic related party transactions. We also examine the significant change in related party transaction reporting regulations enacted in 2006 and find that it led to a decline in the number of value-decreasing related party transactions for founder-led family firms. We find a corresponding decrease in the detrimental effect of related party transactions on founder-led family firms’ valuation. Our results suggest that changes in the 2006 SEC related party transaction reporting regulations better protected minority shareholders from wealth extraction via related party transactions in founder-led family firms.

Keywords: Family Firms, Related Party Transactions, Valuation, Family Firm Valuation Premium

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Kohlbeck, Mark J. and Lee, Hye Seung (Grace) and Mayhew, Brian W. and Salas, Jesus M., Do Related Party Transactions Affect Family Firm Valuations? (December 2, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3154565 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3154565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , R Stulz , R Williamson
Differences in Governance Practices between U. S. and Foreign Firms: Measurement, Causes, and Consequences. The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 3131 - 3169 Posted: 2009
A Ali , T Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 38 - 86 Posted: 2007
R Anderson , A Duru , D Reeb
Founders, heirs, and corporate opacity in the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 222 Posted: 2009
R Anderson , D Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
369
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,869
RANK
184,612
8 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies