Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Spillover Effects of Internal Control Weakness Disclosures: The Role of Audit Committees and Board Connections

Contemporary Accounting Research, 2018

Posted: 19 Apr 2018

Shijun Cheng

Shanghai Advanced Institute of Finance (SAIF), Shanghai Jiao Tong University

Robert Felix

Catholic University of America (CUA) - Busch School of Business and Economics

Raffi Indjejikian

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Accounting

Date Written: April 2, 2018

Abstract

We find that firms are less likely to report an internal control material weakness (as mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act) in a given year if one of their audit committee members is concurrently on the board of a firm that disclosed a material weakness within the prior three years. We find a similar spillover effect for financial restatement disclosures. The spillover from material weakness disclosures is evident only if a shared director has more experience with the disclosing firm or can channel more information about the disclosed material weakness. Our findings suggest that prior director experiences outside the firm influence the work of audit committees inside the firm. One rationale is that a director’s prior experience with an adverse disclosure helps diffuse important insights and serves as a catalyst for improvements in a firm’s internal control and financial reporting practices. An alternative explanation, which we cannot dismiss, holds that a director’s prior experience helps a firm to under-report material weaknesses and financial restatements without any attendant improvements in the underlying practices.

Keywords: Board Interlock, Audit Committee, Internal Controls, Material Weakness, Spillover, SOX

JEL Classification: G34, G39, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Shijun and Felix, Robert and Indjejikian, Raffi J., Spillover Effects of Internal Control Weakness Disclosures: The Role of Audit Committees and Board Connections (April 2, 2018). Contemporary Accounting Research, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3154534
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,872
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies