Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Informativeness of Impression Management – Financial Analysts and Rhetorical Style of CEO Letters

Pacific Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 19 Apr 2018

Walter Aerts

University of Antwerp

James Thewissen

Catholic University of Louvain (UCL) - Louvain Finance (LFIN)

Beibei Yan

Shanghai University - SHU-UTS SILC Business School

Date Written: April 2, 2018

Abstract

This paper investigates the informativeness of rhetorical impression management patterns of CEO letters. We identify three holistic style patterns (assertive acclaiming, cautious plausibility-based framing and logic-based rationalizing) and examine the relationship of each composite linguistic style feature and the properties of earnings forecasting behaviour of security financial analysts, such as the forecast dispersion and accuracy. The results show that assertive rhetorical impression management in CEO letters is negatively related with the dispersion of financial analysts’ earnings forecasts and positively with earnings forecast accuracy. CEOs’ use of a rationalizing rhetorical pattern tends to decrease the dispersion of financial analysts’ earnings, whereas a cautious plausibility-based rhetorical position is marginally instrumental in getting more accurate earnings predictions. Our results are robust to alternative model specifications and a set of covariates. While impression management communication is often theorized as manipulative and void of real information content, this paper evidences that impression management serves both self-presentation and information-sharing purposes. These findings suggest that the information-sharing and self-presentation objectives of impression management are not necessarily mutually exclusive.

Keywords: Impression management, Letter to shareholders, Linguistic properties, Rhetorical style, Analysts’ forecasts

Suggested Citation:

Aerts, Walter and Thewissen, James and Yan, Beibei, The Informativeness of Impression Management – Financial Analysts and Rhetorical Style of CEO Letters (April 2, 2018). Pacific Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3154790
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,070
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies