Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management (of) Proposals

68 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2018 Last revised: 17 Apr 2023

Ilona Babenko

Arizona State University

Goeun Choi

Loyola Marymount University - College of Business Administration

Rik Sen

University of Georgia

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 15, 2023

Abstract

Using shareholder voting records on management proposals, we find evidence of systematic managerial influence on outcomes of close votes. This behavior is more pronounced for firms with low institutional ownership, for binding proposals, and for proposals receiving a negative ISS recommendation. Our estimates suggest that over 60% of management proposals headed for a narrow defeat have their outcome altered. We also identify new mechanisms by which managers influence the voting outcomes, such as meeting adjournment and selective campaigning. Finally, the market reacts positively to the failure of management proposals. Combined with the theoretical model, these results suggest that managerial influence on the voting process is value-destroying.

Keywords: Corporate Voting, Management Proposals, Shareholder Proposals, Manipulation

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Babenko, Ilona and Choi, Goeun and Sen, Rik, Management (of) Proposals (April 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3155428 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3155428
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Renee Adams , Daniel Ferreira
One share, one vote: The empirical evidence
Review of Finance , volume 12 , p. 51 - 91 Posted: 2008
Anat R Admati , Paul Pfleiderer
The "Wall Street Walk" and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
Reena Aggarwal , Sandeep Dahiya , Nagpurnanand R Prabhala
The power of shareholder votes: Evidence from uncontested director elections
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , p. 134 - 153 Posted: 2019
Reena Aggarwal , Pedro Saffi , Jason Sturgess
The role of institutional investors in voting: Evidence from the securities lending market
Journal of Finance , volume 70 , p. 2309 - 2346 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
786
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,326
RANK
63,990
4 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies