Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economics of Misreporting and the Role of Public Scrutiny

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

66 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2018 Last revised: 29 Dec 2021

Delphine Samuels

University of Chicago -- Booth School of Business

Daniel J. Taylor

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania

Robert E. Verrecchia

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Date Written: December 1, 2018

Abstract

This paper examines how the ex ante level of public scrutiny influences a manager’s subsequent decision to misreport. The conventional wisdom is that high levels of public scrutiny facilitate monitoring, suggesting a negative relation between scrutiny and misreporting. However, public scrutiny also increases the weight that investors place on earnings in valuing the firm. This in turn increases the benefit of misreporting, suggesting a positive relation. We formalize these two countervailing forces––"monitoring" and "valuation"––in the context of a parsimonious model of misreporting. We show that the combination of these two forces leads to a unimodal relation. Specifically, as the level of public scrutiny increases, misreporting first increases, reaches a peak, and then decreases. We find evidence of such a relation across multiple empirical measures of misreporting, multiple measures of public scrutiny, and multiple research designs.

Keywords: misreporting, misrepresentation, fraud, earnings management, monitoring, valuation, information quality, information environment

JEL Classification: G14, G34, L21, M41, M42, M43

Suggested Citation:

Samuels, Delphine and Taylor, Daniel and Verrecchia, Robert E., The Economics of Misreporting and the Role of Public Scrutiny (December 1, 2018). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3157222 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3157222
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
E Amir , E Einhorn , I Kama
The role of accounting disaggregation in detecting and mitigating earnings management
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 68 Posted: 2014
C Armstrong , D Larcker , G Ormazabal , D Taylor
The relation between equity incentives and misreporting: The role of risk-taking incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 327 - 350 Posted: 2013
J Bertomeu , A Beyer , D Taylor
From Casual to Causal Inference in Accounting Research: The Need for Theoretical Foundations
Foundations and Trends in Accounting , volume 10 , p. 262 - 313 Posted: 2016
J Bertomeu , E Cheynel , E Li , Y Liang
A simple theory-based approach to identifying misreporting costs and biases Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
925
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,024
RANK
58,250
6 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies