Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Good Corporate Governance on Financial Distress in the Consumer Goods Sector

J. Fin. Bank. Review 2 (4) 46 – 55 (2017)

10 Pages Posted: 11 May 2018

Sri Marti Pramudena

STIE Binaniaga Bogor

Date Written: December 11, 2017

Abstract

Objective – Financial distress is referred to as a condition in which a company's operations result in insufficient funds to meet its obligations (insolvency). The success or failure of a company greatly depends on the corporate governance of the company. This study aims to identify the relationship between the existence of good corporate governance and the probability of financial distress.

Methodology/Technique – This study used secondary data obtained from annual reports from 2009 to 2014. The data is gathered from consumer goods manufacturing companies, that are listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange (BEI). The sample includes 10 companies. The method of analysis used is multiple linear regressions.

Findings – The results of the study show that institutional ownership and managerial ownership adversely affect the possibility of financial distress. On the other hand, the proportion of commissioners and the number of board of directors have a positive effect on the probability of financial distress.

Novelty – This study found that institutional ownership (IO) has an inverse effect on the financial distress of a company.

Keywords: Good Corporate Governance; Financial Distress; Corporate Performance

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G39

Suggested Citation:

Pramudena, Sri Marti, The Impact of Good Corporate Governance on Financial Distress in the Consumer Goods Sector (December 11, 2017). J. Fin. Bank. Review 2 (4) 46 – 55 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3157722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
A A Atkinson , S Robert , Kaplan
Advance Management Accounting Posted: 1998
Alexander David
Principles of Emergency planning and Management Posted: 2002
T Bodroastuti
The influence of Corporate Governance Structure on Financial Distress
Journal on Economics ASET , volume 11 , issue 2 Posted: 2009
Robert M. Bowen , Shivaram Rajgopal , Mohan Venkatachalam
Accounting Discretion, Corporate Governance and Firm Performance
14th Annual Conference on Financial Economics and Accounting (FEA); EFA 2003 Annual Conference Paper No. 127 Pages: 65 Posted: 20 Jan 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,238
RANK
499,012
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies