Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Response to Tax Related SEC Comment Letters

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3157739

50 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2018

Alexander Edwards

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Kenneth J. Klassen

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Karen Pinto

University of Waterloo - University of Waterloo, Faculty of Arts, School of Accounting and Finance, Students

Date Written: April 3, 2018

Abstract

We examine if and when investors systematically respond to SEC comment letters focusing on comment letters that contain tax-related issues. Using a sample of more than 10,000 comment letters from the Audit Analytics' SEC Comment Letter Database, we identify comment letters related to tax issues. Prior research has documented that the receipt of a comment letter can be important to future accounting disclosures but has generally failed to document investor responses. We focus on tax issues as prior research has documented changes in tax paying behavior following the receipt of comment letters by firms. Because of this change in future cash flows, we expect investors to revise their valuations of firms receiving tax related comment letters. We hypothesize, and find evidence consistent with more negative responses to tax related comment letters for tax aggressive firms. Our findings shed light on the role of comment letters in the capital markets and also contribute to the literature on the role of taxes in valuation.

Keywords: Taxes, SEC Comment Letters, Market Reaction, Tax Aggressiveness

JEL Classification: G18, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Edwards, Alexander S. and Klassen, Kenneth and Pinto, Karen, Investor Response to Tax Related SEC Comment Letters (April 3, 2018). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3157739, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3157739 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3157739
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An examination of reputational costs and tax avoidance: Evidence from firms with valuable customer brands
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 Posted: 2017
Crossref
A M Bauer
Tax Avoidance and the Implications of Weak Internal Controls
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 2 , issue 33 , p. 449 - 486 Posted: 2016
Crossref
M D Beneish , M B Billings , L D Hodder
Internal Control Weaknesses and Information Uncertainty
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 665 - 703 Posted: 2008
Crossref
D A Bens , M Cheng , M Neamtiu
The impact of SEC disclosure monitoring on the uncertainty of fair value estimates
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 2 , p. 349 - 375 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Jaehan Ahn , Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash
Are Words Beneficial to the Consumption of Numbers in Financial Reports?
54 Pages · Posted: 19 May 2020 · Last revised: 17 Aug 2022 · Downloads: 659
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lauren M. Cunningham , Jacob Justus Leidner
The SEC Filing Review Process: A Survey and Future Research Opportunities
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · Posted: 16 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 3 Nov 2021 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
317
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,381
RANK
218,186
2 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies