Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Firms Strategically Internalize Disclosure Spillovers? Evidence from Cash-Financed M&As

Journal of Accounting Research [58(5): 1249-1297 (December 2020)]

62 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2018 Last revised: 28 Dec 2020

Jinhwan Kim

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Rodrigo S. Verdi

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Benjamin Yost

Boston College - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 6, 2020

Abstract

We investigate whether managers internalize the spillover effects of their disclosure on the stock price of related firms and strategically alter their disclosure decisions when doing so is beneficial. Using data on firm-initiated disclosures during all-cash acquisitions, we find evidence consistent with acquirers strategically generating news that they expect will depress the target’s stock price. Our results suggest the disclosure strategy leads to lower target returns during the negotiation period when the takeover price is being determined and results in a lower target premium. These findings are robust to a battery of specifications and falsification tests. Our results are consistent with expected spillovers influencing the timing and content of firms’ disclosures in M&A transactions.

Keywords: corporate disclosures; internalizing externalities; mergers and acquisitions

JEL Classification: D62; D83; G34; M41

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jinhwan and Verdi, Rodrigo S. and Yost, Benjamin, Do Firms Strategically Internalize Disclosure Spillovers? Evidence from Cash-Financed M&As (October 6, 2020). Journal of Accounting Research [58(5): 1249-1297 (December 2020)], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3158520 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3158520
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
751
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,630
RANK
77,309
18 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies