Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customer Concentration, Bad News Withholding, and Stock Price Crash Risk

60 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2018 Last revised: 10 May 2019

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Gang Hu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Jun Yao

Deakin University

Jingran Zhao

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: May 7, 2019

Abstract

We investigate whether the presence of major corporate customers affects firm stock price crash risk. Using data on a large sample of U.S. firms, we find that firms with a more concentrated customer base have a higher stock price crash risk. Further, we show an amplified effect of customer concentration on crash risk for firms that attach more importance to customer relations and an attenuated effect for firms with stronger third-party monitoring. Overall, we find that a concentrated customer base imposes performance pressure on managers. This induces them to withhold bad news, which ultimately results in future stock price crashes.

Keywords: Customer concentration; Crash risk; Bad news withholding; Performance pressure.

JEL Classification: G14, G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yangyang and Hu, Gang and Yao, Jun Alex and Zhao, Jingran, Customer Concentration, Bad News Withholding, and Stock Price Crash Risk (May 7, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3158088 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3158088
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
B K Ak , P N Patatoukas
Customer-base concentration and inventory efficiencies: Evidence from the manufacturing sector , volume 25 , p. 258 - 272 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R Ball
Market and political/regulatory perspectives on the recent accounting scandals
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 323 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S Banerjee , S Dasgupta , Y Kim
Buyer-supplier relationships and the stakeholder theory of capital structure
The Journal of Finance , volume 63 , issue 5 , p. 2507 - 2552 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary accounting research , volume 15 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
580
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,681
RANK
107,760
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies