Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Local CEOs, Career Concerns, and Voluntary Disclosure

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting

55 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2018 Last revised: 8 Aug 2022

Yaqin Hu

McMaster University

Date Written: August 25, 2018

Abstract

I study whether the management guidance provided by local CEOs differs from the guidance provided by nonlocal CEOs. The geographic preferences of the CEOs lead to segmented executive labor markets, which impose higher relocation costs and give rise to lower job mobility. I find that local CEOs, who grew up in the same states where the firm headquarters are located, provide fewer items in guidance and less frequent guidance than nonlocal CEOs. I also show that local CEOs have greater asymmetric withholding of bad news relative to good news and that they increase their disclosure during economic downturns in their home states. Collectively, these findings suggest that the geographically segmented CEO labor markets play an important role in the disclosure choices of CEOs.

Keywords: CEO, local, voluntary disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Yaqin, Local CEOs, Career Concerns, and Voluntary Disclosure (August 25, 2018). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3159331 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3159331
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
A Ali , N Li , W Zhang
Restrictions on managers' outside employment opportunities and asymmetric disclosure of bad versus good news
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 5 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2019
D Anantharaman , Y Zhang
Cover me: Managers' responses to changes in analyst coverage in the post-Regulation FD period
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 6 , p. 1851 - 1885 Posted: 2011
J D Angrist , J S Pischke , S P Baginski , J L Campbell , L A Hinson , D S Koo
Do career concerns affect the delay of bad news disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 61 - 95 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
335
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,015
RANK
205,502
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies