Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Was Sarbanes-Oxley Costly? Evidence from Optimal Contracting on CEO Compensation

83 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2021

George-Levi Gayle

Federal Reserve Banks - Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis; Washington University in St. Louis - Department of Economics

Chen Li

New York University (NYU) - New York University (NYU), Shanghai

Robert Miller

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 22, 2020

Abstract

This paper investigates the effects of regulatory interventions on contracting relationships within firms by examining the impacts of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) on CEO compensation. Using panel data of the S&P 1500 firms, it quantifies welfare gains from a dynamic principal-agent model of hidden information and hidden actions. It finds that SOX: (i) did not change CEOs' risk attitude, (ii) improved the shareholders -- CEOs interest alignment by reducing shareholders' loss from CEOs shirking and CEOs' benefits from shirking, and (iii) slightly reduced the administrative costs and mainly increased the agency costs embedded in CEO compensation. Cross-sectionally, it finds favorable impacts of SOX most often in the consumer goods sector, which is the least regulated among the three sectors we study. It finds no systematic patterns of SOX's impact varying with firm size.

JEL Classification: C10, C12, C13, J30, J33, M50, M52, M55

Suggested Citation:

Gayle, George-Levi and Gayle, George-Levi and Li, Chen and Miller, Robert, Was Sarbanes-Oxley Costly? Evidence from Optimal Contracting on CEO Compensation (October 22, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3159713 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3159713
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
R Ball
Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals'
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , p. 277 - 323 Posted: 1986
Crossref
S Banerjee , M Humphery-Jenner , V Nanda Bargeron , L L , K M Lehn , C J Zutter , J Bertomeu , E Cheynel , E X Li , And Y Liang ; J , P Ma , And I Marinovic
Restraining Overcon…dent CEOs through Improved Governance: Evidence from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Management Science. Forthcoming. 2020a. BERTOMEU , volume 28 , p. 73 - 102 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Beyer , I Guttman , And I Marinovic , A Bird , S A Karolyi , T G Ruchti
Earnings Management and Earnings Quality: Theory and Evidence
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 94 , p. 77 - 101 Posted: 2019
P Bolton , M Dewatripont Theory , Cambridge , M D Windisch Ma ; Breuer , M E Carter , L J Lynch , S L C Zechman
Investment Dynamics and Earnings-Return Properties: A Structural Approach
CENTER FOR AUDIT QUALITY (CAQ). 'The CAQ's Fourth Annual Individual Investor Survey , volume 57 , p. 480 - 506 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
995
RANK
201,467
13 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies