Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Separate and Joint Effects of the Market for Corporate Control and Board Effectiveness on R&D Valuation

Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 43, No. 2, 2018

Posted: 28 Apr 2018

Shimin Chen

China Europe International Business School (CEIBS)

Bin Srinidhi

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting; City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Lixin (Nancy) Su

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Jamie Yixing Tong

University of Western Australia

Date Written: August 17, 2017

Abstract

This study finds that stronger market control (measured as fewer anti-takeover provisions) and more effective boards (measured as boards that are more independent and for which independent directors have more outside directorships) are both associated with higher R&D valuation. Furthermore, stronger market control (more effective board governance) is associated with higher R&D valuation only in the presence of weaker board governance (market control). Taken together, the results are consistent with the interpretation that both the market for corporate control and effective boards mitigate agency conflicts arising from R&D investments and improve the market valuation of R&D. Furthermore, the two mechanisms act as substitutes in doing so.

Keywords: Board, market for corporate control, R&D valuation

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Shimin and Srinidhi, Bin and Srinidhi, Bin and Su, Lixin (Nancy) and Tong, Jamie Yixing, The Separate and Joint Effects of the Market for Corporate Control and Board Effectiveness on R&D Valuation (August 17, 2017). Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 43, No. 2, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3159899
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
772
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies