Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Career Concerns, Optimism and Accuracy in Disclosure Tone

51 Pages Posted: 10 May 2018 Last revised: 17 Mar 2022

Andrea Bafundi

Universidad Carlos III Madrid

Beatriz Garcia Osma

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid ; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Cristina Grande-Herrera

Comillas Pontifical University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Encarna Guillamon Saorin

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid

Date Written: March 12, 2022

Abstract

We argue that CEOs manage narrative disclosure tone in response to career concerns. Using a large sample of US firms’ 10-K disclosures, we find that managers use less optimistic tone in their early career years. Our evidence also indicates that CEOs appear to use optimistic tone to signal their performance ability. We find that highly able CEOs use a more optimistic tone in their early career years, and that this tone accurately reflects their superior future performance. Career concerns influence tone in settings where boards are independent, the CEO is not the chairman of the board, and managerial compensation packages offer less severance pay. Firms with optimistic disclosures are more likely to access future debt, engage in greater future capital investment, and pay more future dividends. This is particularly true in firms where ex post performance is strong. Our results suggest that disclosure strategies are connected to managerial human capital and to CEO performance assessment concerns.

Keywords: CEO career concerns, CEO ability, Optimistic disclosure tone, CEO assessment, 10-K disclosures, Narrative disclosure, CEO turnover

JEL Classification: M12, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Bafundi, Andrea and Garcia Osma, Beatriz and Grande-Herrera, Cristina and Guillamon Saorin, Encarna, CEO Career Concerns, Optimism and Accuracy in Disclosure Tone (March 12, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3160100 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3160100
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
126 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
J M Abowd , F Kramarz , D Margolis
High wage workers and high wage firms
Econometrica , volume 67 , issue 2 , p. 251 - 333 Posted: 1999
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management , volume 59 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
E Amir , B Lev
Value-relevance of non-financial information: The wireless communications industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , issue 1-3 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
697
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,370
RANK
85,245
126 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies