Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Media Help or Hurt Retail Investors During the IPO Quiet Period?

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2018 Last revised: 27 Aug 2019

Brian J. Bushee

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Matthew C. Cedergren

Santa Clara University

Jeremy Michels

Purdue University

Date Written: August 26, 2019

Abstract

We examine how the media influences retail trade and market returns during the “quiet period” that follows a firm’s IPO. We find that more media coverage during this period is associated with more purchases by retail investors and that such purchases are attention-driven, rather than information-based. Further, these retail trades are negatively associated with stock returns at the firm’s first earnings announcement post-IPO. Our results suggest that media coverage, combined with market frictions that limit price efficiency in the post-IPO period, leads to worse investing outcomes for retail investors.

Keywords: Media, Retail Investors, Retail Trade, Initial Public Offering, IPO, Quiet Period, Individual Investors, Investor Attention

JEL Classification: G11, G14, G24, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bushee, Brian J. and Cedergren, Matthew C. and Michels, Jeremy, Does the Media Help or Hurt Retail Investors During the IPO Quiet Period? (August 26, 2019). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3160949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3160949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
R Aggarwal
Stabilization activities by underwriters after initial public offerings
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 1075 - 1103 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Aggarwal , R P Nagpurnanand , M Puri
Institutional allocation in initial public offerings: Empirical evidence
The Journal of Finance , volume 57 , p. 1421 - 1442 Posted: 2002
Crossref
B Barber , T Odean
Trading is hazardous to your wealth: The common stock investment performance of individual investors
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 773 - 806 Posted: 2000
Crossref
B Barber , T Odean
All that glitters: The effect of attention and news on the buying behavior of individual and institutional investors
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , p. 785 - 818 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
772
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,130
RANK
74,530
46 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies