Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Boards, Shareholding Structures and Voluntary Disclosure in Emerging MENA Economies

Sarhan, A.A. and Ntim, C.G. (2018). ‘Corporate Boards, Shareholding Structures and Voluntary Disclosure in Emerging MENA Economies’, Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies, Forthcoming

32 Pages Posted: 1 May 2018

Ahmed Sarhan

Northumbria University

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Date Written: April 12, 2018

Abstract

Purpose: This paper investigates the level of voluntary compliance with, and disclosure of, corporate governance best practices, and the extent to which board characteristics and shareholding structures can explain discernible differences in the level of voluntary corporate governance disclosure in a number of emerging Middle Eastern and North African (MENA) economies.

Design/methodology/approach: The paper uses a number of multivariate regression methods, namely ordinary least squares, weighted, non-linear, lagged-effects, two stage least squares and fixed-effects regression techniques to analyse data collected for a sample of listed corporations in emerging MENA economies from 2009 to 2014.

Findings: First, in general, MENA listed firms have a relatively lower level of voluntary compliance with, and disclosure of, corporate governance practices compared to listed firms in developed countries. Second, our evidence suggests that corporate board characteristics, including board diversity and audit firm size have a positive association with the level of voluntary corporate governance disclosure. In contrast, the findings indicate that unitary board leadership structure, director shareholdings, and government shareholdings impact negatively on the level of voluntary corporate governance disclosure. The study does not, however, find any evidence to suggest that board size and family shareholdings have any significant relationship with the level of voluntary corporate governance disclosure. The findings are generally robust to alternative measures and potential endogeneity problems.

Originality/value: This is one of the first empirical efforts at investigating the association between corporate governance mechanisms and voluntary disclosure in emerging MENA economies that observably relies on a multi-theoretical framework within a longitudinal cross-country research setting.

Keywords: corporate governance; voluntary disclosure; board characteristics; shareholding structures; emerging MENA economies

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Sarhan, Ahmed and Ntim, Collins G., Corporate Boards, Shareholding Structures and Voluntary Disclosure in Emerging MENA Economies (April 12, 2018). Sarhan, A.A. and Ntim, C.G. (2018). ‘Corporate Boards, Shareholding Structures and Voluntary Disclosure in Emerging MENA Economies’, Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3161610
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
R V Aguilera , D E Rupp , C A Williams , J Ganapathi
Putting the S back in corporate social responsibility: A multilevel theory of social change in organizations
Academy of Management Review , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 836 - 863 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A H Ahmed , B M Burton , T M Dunne
The determinants of corporate internet reporting in Egypt: an exploratory analysis
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 60 Posted: 2017
Crossref
W M Al-Bassam , C G Ntim
The effect of Islamic values on voluntary corporate governance disclosure: The case of Saudi listed firms
Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business Research , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 182 - 202 Posted: 2017
Crossref
W M Ai-Bassam , C G Ntim , K K Opong , Y Downs
Corporate Boards and Ownership Structure as Antecedents of Corporate Governance Disclosure in Saudi Arabian Publicly Listed Corporations Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Thi Hong Hahn Nguyen , Collins G. Ntim , John Malagila
Women on Corporate Boards and Corporate Financial and Non-financial Performance: A Systematic Literature Review and Future Research Agenda
Nguyen, T.H.H., Ntim, C.G., & Malagila, J. (2020). ‘Women on corporate boards and corporate financial and non-financial performance: A systematic literature review and future research agenda’, International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming., · 60 Pages · Posted: 14 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 482
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,499
RANK
403,165
1 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies