Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asymmetric Returns and the Economic Content of Accruals and Investment

34 Pages Posted: 1 May 2018

Luca Del Viva

ESADE Business School

S.P. Kothari

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Neophytos Lambertides

Cyprus University of Technology

Lenos Trigeorgis

University of Cyprus - Department of Public and Business Administration; King’s College London; Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: April 13, 2018

Abstract

We examine the economic content of accruals and investment and test whether they are related to nonlinear equity value and asymmetric returns arising from firm growth. We confirm that current accruals mainly reflect capital investment commitment to assets in place arising from past growth, though a part is related to future growth arising from innovation capacity (IC). We show that past and future growth components of accruals and investment have opposite effects on investors’ expectations of future asymmetric returns, i.e., skewness. The part of expected idiosyncratic skewness predicted using investment growth variables is negatively related to returns. A new growth-driven skewness factor built on differentials in expected idiosyncratic skewness significantly explains the time-series variation in hedge-portfolio returns of accruals and investment. Investments in innovative capacity (real options) are more pronounced in periods of greater uncertainty. We find that the accruals component related to past growth and commitment is significant in economic states of low market sensitivity, while the part related to future growth is significant in high sensitivity states.

Keywords: investment and accruals, volatility, growth options, nonlinear equity value, asymmetric returns, idiosyncratic skewness, anomalies

JEL Classification: G12

Suggested Citation:

Del Viva, Luca and Kothari, S.P. and Lambertides, Neophytos and Trigeorgis, Lenos, Asymmetric Returns and the Economic Content of Accruals and Investment (April 13, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3161993 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3161993
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
491
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,813
RANK
132,557
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies