Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility Practices of Banks in Bangladesh: A Structuration Theory Perspective

Ndiweni, E., Haque, F., & Hassan, M. K. (2018) Corporate social responsibility practices of banks in Bangladesh: a structuration theory perspective. Investment Management and Financial Innovations, Volume 49, Issue 3, pp. 350–360.

22 Pages Posted: 1 May 2018

Esinath Ndiweni

Heriot-Watt University - Department of Accountancy, Economics and Finance

Faizul Haque

University of Southampton

Mostafa Hassan

Qatar University

Date Written: February 2018

Abstract

The aim of this paper is to illuminate the role of the socio-economic, cultural and religious context in shaping corporate social responsibility (CSR) practices of banks in Bangladesh. We utilise content analysis of annual reports and websites of banks to identify CSR activities in healthcare, education and financial inclusion sectors. We use structuration theory (ST) to explain how interactions between bank managers (as agents) with the social structures (institutions and government) shape CSR practices. Our findings show that banks’ engagement in CSR activities is embedded in the social fabric of Bangladesh and not a result of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). We also note that Islamic banks focus their CSR activities on social justice, while other banks target education and other humanitarian issues. We contribute to the literature on the determinants of CSR by revealing the rationalizations of different actors in the production and reproduction of CSR practices in Bangladesh, an insight we attribute to ST. We conclude that Islamic beliefs influenced managers to mitigate poverty through CSR investments.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Socio-Economic and Religious Context, and Structuration Theory, Bangladesh

JEL Classification: M14, M40, O15, O35, I00

Suggested Citation:

Ndiweni, Esinath and Haque, Faizul and Hassan, Mostafa, Corporate Social Responsibility Practices of Banks in Bangladesh: A Structuration Theory Perspective (February 2018). Ndiweni, E., Haque, F., & Hassan, M. K. (2018) Corporate social responsibility practices of banks in Bangladesh: a structuration theory perspective. Investment Management and Financial Innovations, Volume 49, Issue 3, pp. 350–360., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3161673
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
W Aerts , D Cormier , M Magnan
Intra-industry imitation in corporate environmental reporting: an international perspective
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , p. 299 - 331 Posted: 2006
Crossref
B Agle , H J Van Buren
God and mammon: The modern relationship
Business Ethics Quarterly , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 563 - 582 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Ahmad , D R Khanal
Services trade in developing Asia: A case study of banking and insurance sector in Bangladesh
Working Paper Series , volume 38 Posted: 2007-07
F Ahmed
Financial sector reform in Bangladesh: Developments and challenges. The New Nations , p. 3 - 4 Posted: 2005-03-28
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,430
RANK
427,290
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies