Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Boards, Ownership Structure and Firm Performance in an Environment of Severe Political and Economic Crisis

British Journal of Management, 23 (supplement), 2012

Posted: 2 May 2018

Musa Mangena

University of Nottingham Business School

Venancio Tauringana

Bournemouth University - Accounting and Finance

Eddie Chamisa

University of Cape Town - Department of Finance and Tax

Date Written: March 14, 2012

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between board and ownership structures and firm performance in an environment of severe political and economic crisis. Using panel data from the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange (ZSE) for the period 2000-2005, we split the period into pre-presidential election period (2000-2002) (a relatively stable political and economic period) and post-presidential election period (2003-2005) (a hostile political and economic period) to capture the differences in the political and economic landscape. We find that board size, ownership concentration and executive directors' share ownership increased whilst the proportion of non-executive directors reduced in the post-presidential election period. Employing a system Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) approach, we find that performance is positively related to board size and ownership concentration in the post- (but not in the pre-) presidential election period. The results also show that performance is negatively related to executive directors' share ownership in the post-presidential election period, but positively related in the pre-presidential election period. The proportion of non-executive directors is negative and significant in both periods. These findings support the notion that the effects of board and ownership structures depend on the nature of the firm's environment, and therefore have important implications for policy-makers

Keywords: corporate governance structures; firm performance; political and economic crisis; rule of law and enforcement, political theory

Suggested Citation:

Mangena, Musa and Tauringana, Venancio and Chamisa, Edward Elae, Corporate Boards, Ownership Structure and Firm Performance in an Environment of Severe Political and Economic Crisis (March 14, 2012). British Journal of Management, 23 (supplement), 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3162584
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
959
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies