Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Too Busy or Well-Connected? Evidence from a Shock to Multiple Directorships

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper No. 18-20

55 Pages Posted: 12 May 2018 Last revised: 24 May 2018

Anna Bergman Brown

Clarkson University

Jing Dai

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Emanuel Zur

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Date Written: February 1, 2018

Abstract

Prior literature documents that multiple directorships are negatively associated with operating performance due to overly busy directors; however, multiple directorships may also increase firm value because directors gain access to valuable connections, resources, and information through their multiple appointments. This paper examines M&A that terminate target firms’ entire boards as a negative shock to both board busyness and connections at other firms, as a complement to Hauser (2017). We document that firms experiencing a decrease in multiple directorships due to M&A exhibit improved operating performance, monitoring, and strategic advising on average. Firms with the smallest decrease in board connections experience the greatest improvement in operating performance and advising, while firms with the greatest decrease in board connections experience null or negative effects on operating performance and advising. Our findings provide new evidence of the costs and benefits of multiple directorships, depending on the level of board connections.

Keywords: Board, Monitoring, Advising, Connection

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Anna Bergman and Dai, Jing and Zur, Emanuel, Too Busy or Well-Connected? Evidence from a Shock to Multiple Directorships (February 1, 2018). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper No. 18-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3162614 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3162614
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
870
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,804
RANK
63,456
8 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies