Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility an Opposite View

The Cost and Management ISSN 1817-5090, Volume 43, Number 5, September-October 2015

9 Pages Posted: 2 May 2018

Tanzina Haque

University of Dhaka - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Amirus Salat

University of Dhaka - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Shafiqul Alam

Noakhali Science and Technology University - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to identify some key issues of the misuse of fund of CSR in Bangladesh. To identify this, content analysis of different publication and reports from different newspaper and published articles have been done by the authors. Results show that the funds of CSR are being used for the personal name and fame as well as political vision. The loss-making and low margin organization are taking CSR activities at the cost of shareholders fund. Some organizations want to cover their misconduct by performing some philanthropic responsibilities. Moreover, the concept of CSR is also misunderstood by considering it as only a philanthropic responsibility, rather than including economic, legal and ethical responsibilities. However normative concepts of this misuse of fund of CSR need to be validated by empirical testing. strict Body]

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Philanthropic responsibility

Suggested Citation:

Haque, Tanzina and Salat, Amirus and Alam, Shafiqul, Corporate Social Responsibility an Opposite View (2015). The Cost and Management ISSN 1817-5090, Volume 43, Number 5, September-October 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3162928
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Implementing the partnership for growth and jobs: Making Europe a pole of excellence on corporate social responsibility
the European Communities Posted: 2006-03-22
S M Alam , Shafiul
Shah Hoque , Md , Safiul , Md Hosen , Zakir
Corporate Social Responsibility of Multi National Corporations in Bangladesh: A Case study on Grameenphone Posted: 2014-04-09
Zachary Cheer
The Corporate Social Responsibility Debate Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,218
RANK
640,233
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Industrial & Manufacturing Engineering eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies