Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Incidences of Listing Suspension by the JSE Securities Exchange of South Africa: An Empirical Analysis

The International Journal of Accounting, 43 (1): 28-44, 2008

Posted: 2 May 2018

Musa Mangena

University of Nottingham Business School

Eddie Chamisa

University of Cape Town - Department of Finance and Tax

Date Written: March 2018

Abstract

In this study, we examine the association between corporate governance structures and incidences of listing suspension from the JSE Securities Exchange of South Africa (JSE). Using a matched-pairs research design, we compare 81 firms suspended between 1999 and 2005 to an equal number of control firms matched in terms of time, size and industry. Employing a conditional logistic model, we find that the likelihood of suspension is higher in firms with a smaller proportion of non-executive directors, without an audit committee, with greater block share ownership and higher gearing. Further analysis of block share ownership into institutional and non-institutional investors provides mixed results. While we find a positive association between suspension and non-institutional investors, we observe no association with institutional investors. No association is detected for board size, role duality, directors' share ownership, auditor quality and return on assets. Given the paucity of studies examining listing suspension from stock exchanges and corporate governance mechanisms, these findings contribute to the literature. Additionally, the dearth of research on corporate governance in developing countries suggests that our findings have important implications for policy-makers in these countries as they endeavour to improve corporate governance.

Keywords: Corporate Governance; Listing Suspension; JSE Securities Exchange; Developing Countries; South Africa

Suggested Citation:

Mangena, Musa and Chamisa, Edward Elae, Corporate Governance and Incidences of Listing Suspension by the JSE Securities Exchange of South Africa: An Empirical Analysis (March 2018). The International Journal of Accounting, 43 (1): 28-44, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3162575
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,310
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies