Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Internal Board Networks: Evidence from Closed-End Funds

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2018 Last revised: 13 Jun 2018

Matthew E. Souther

University of South Carolina - Darla Moore School of Business

Date Written: May 31, 2018

Abstract

Recent literature emphasizes the importance of a director’s external network of social connections. I use a sample of closed-end funds to show that internal, within-board connections are also significant determinants of shareholder value. I find that boards with shared education, employment, and family backgrounds exhibit lower market values, higher expense ratios, higher director compensation levels, and an increased likelihood of financial misrepresentation. Director turnover is lower within these boards, and new director appointments are more likely to share connections with incumbent directors. I conclude that internal board networks negatively impact a firm’s governance environment and overall monitoring quality.

Keywords: Boards of director networks, Social ties, Director compensation, Board independence, Closed-end funds, Disclosure

JEL Classification: G30, G34, L14

Suggested Citation:

Souther, Matthew, The Effects of Internal Board Networks: Evidence from Closed-End Funds (May 31, 2018). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3163884 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3163884
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
R B Adams , A C Akyol , P Verwijmeren
Director Skill Sets
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2017
Crossref
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Do directors perform for pay?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , p. 154 - 171 Posted: 2008
Crossref
F Akbas , F Meschke , M B Wintoki
Director networks and informed traders
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R Axelrod
The Evolution of Cooperation Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,791
RANK
239,255
6 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies