Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of the Interactive Effect of Feedback Source and Sign in the Offshoring Environment: A Social Identity Perspective

Behavioral Research in Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 3 May 2018

Lindsay M. Andiola

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Accounting

Denise Downey

Villanova University

Brian C. Spilker

Brigham Young University

Tracy Noga

Bentley University

Date Written: April 11, 2018

Abstract

Public accounting firms regularly rely on offshore professionals to assist with client work. However, differences in interpersonal dynamics between offshore staff members and the supervisors they report to may yield positive and/or negative work outcomes. We examine how feedback source (offshore or onshore supervisor) and feedback sign (negative or positive) interact to affect offshore staff members’ satisfaction with feedback. This is an important issue because subordinate satisfaction with performance feedback is a key determinant of future performance and turnover intentions. We find that offshore staff members are less satisfied with negative feedback from an offshore (local Indian) supervisor, a member of their in-group, than an onshore (remote U.S.) supervisor, a member of their out-group. However, their satisfaction with positive feedback does not significantly differ between feedback sources. Further analysis reveals that greater satisfaction is associated with increases in the effort the staff member plans to put forth in the future.

Keywords: Feedback Source, Feedback Sign, Geographically Distributed Work, Performance Feedback, Offshoring

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M54, D91

Suggested Citation:

Andiola, Lindsay M. and Downey, Denise and Spilker, Brian and Noga, Tracy, An Examination of the Interactive Effect of Feedback Source and Sign in the Offshoring Environment: A Social Identity Perspective (April 11, 2018). Behavioral Research in Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3164530
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,216
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies