Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Associated with Security/Cybersecurity Audit by Internal Audit Function: An International Study

Managerial Auditing Journal, 2017

Posted: 4 May 2018

Sharif Islam

Southern Illinois University - Southern Illinois University at Carbondale

Nusrat Farah

Oregon State University

Thomas Stafford

Louisiana Tech University

Date Written: July 01, 2017

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of the study is to explore the factors associated with the extent of security/cybersecurity audit by the Internal Audit Function (IAF) of the firm. Specifically, we focused on whether IAF/CAE (Certified Audit Executive) characteristics, board involvement related to governance, role of the audit committee (or equivalent) and the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), and IAF tasked with Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), are associated with the extent to which the firm engages in security/cybersecurity audit.

Design/Methodology/Approach – For analysis, the paper uses responses of 970 Chief Audit Executives (CAEs) as compiled in the Common Body of Knowledge database (CBOK, 2015) developed by the Institute of Internal Auditors Research Foundation (IIARF).

Findings – The results of the study suggest that the extent of security/cybersecurity audit by IAF is significantly and positively associated with IAF competence related to governance, risk, and control. Board support regarding governance is also significant and positive. However, Audit Committee (AC) or equivalent and CRO role are not significant across the regions studied. Comprehensive risk assessment done by IAF and IAF quality have a significant and positive effect on security/cybersecurity audit. Unexpectedly, CAEs with security certification and IAFs tasked with ERM do not have a significant effect on security/cybersecurity audit; however, other certifications such as CISA or CPA have a marginal or mixed effect on the extent of security/cybersecurity audit.

Originality/Value – This study is the first to describe IAF involvement in security/cybersecurity audit. It provides insights into the specific IAF/CAE characteristics and corporate governance characteristics that can lead IAF to contribute significantly to security/cybersecurity audit. The findings add to the results of prior studies on the IAF involvement in different IT-related aspects such as IT audit and XBRL implementation and on the role of the board and the audit committee (or its equivalent) in ERM and the detection and correction of security breaches.

Keywords: Internal Audit, Cybersecurity, Board Governance

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Islam, Md. Shariful and Farah, Nusrat and Stafford, Thomas, Factors Associated with Security/Cybersecurity Audit by Internal Audit Function: An International Study (July 01, 2017). Managerial Auditing Journal, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3164741
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,343
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies