Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), a Contribution from Business Towards Environment and Society

11 Pages Posted: 3 May 2018

Jariyah

Semarang State University

Badingatus Solikhah

Universitas Negeri Semarang

Date Written: April 17, 2018

Abstract

The industrial revolution that occurred in the 18th century led to a paradigm shift in society, from agriculture to industrial development. The development of this industry is able to improve the economic and social welfare. Unfortunately, companies just focused on their aims to gain profit (profit-oriented). Company became unaware of environmental issues and community. This is the background of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). CSR is a program as the company's contribution to the environment and community development. The main purpose of this paper is to look at the importance of CSR and the reality happened in Indonesia. This paper also discusses how CSR should be conducted in an ethical manner. In the end, this paper concludes that CSR is important to create the company's business going-concern. In addition, government regulations must be enforced to ensure that all companies implement CSR.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Business, Environment, Society

Suggested Citation:

Jariyah, Jariyah and Solikhah, Badingatus, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), a Contribution from Business Towards Environment and Society (April 17, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3164027 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3164027
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,183
RANK
330,062
1 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies