Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trade Secrets Law and Corporate Disclosure: Causal Evidence on the Proprietary Cost Hypothesis

Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 56, No. 1, 2018

Posted: 7 May 2018

Yinghua Li

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Yupeng Lin

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN); Business School, National University of Singapore

Liandong Zhang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 1, 2018

Abstract

This study exploits the staggered adoption of the inevitable disclosure doctrine (IDD) by U.S. state courts as an exogenous shock that generates variations in the proprietary costs of disclosure. We find that firms respond to IDD adoption by reducing the level of disclosure regarding their customers’ identities, supporting the proprietary cost hypothesis. Our results are stronger for firms in industries with a higher degree of entry threats, for firms in more volatile industries, and for firms with a lower degree of external financing dependence. Overall, this study represents one of the first efforts in identifying the causal effect of proprietary costs of disclosure on the supply of disclosure.

Keywords: proprietary costs; corporate disclosure; customer identity; inevitable disclosure doctrine; trade secrets law

JEL Classification: D82; D83; K11; L1; M41

Suggested Citation:

Li, Yinghua and Lin, Yupeng and Zhang, Liandong, Trade Secrets Law and Corporate Disclosure: Causal Evidence on the Proprietary Cost Hypothesis (March 1, 2018). Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 56, No. 1, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3165705
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,746
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies