Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Introduction to Risk Management: For Board Members and Managing Directors

20 Pages Posted: 7 May 2018 Last revised: 23 Jun 2018

Werner Gleißner

Dresden University of Technology - Faculty of Economics and Business Management

Date Written: April 19, 2018

Abstract

Taking the right approach to managing opportunities and threats (risks) is key to company success in an unpredictable future. Unfortunately in many companies, controlling and risk management do not do enough to help the board and management weigh up the expected returns and risks when it comes to making key company decisions. This can result in bad decision-making, such as investments that could have been avoided, or decisions that can lead to a deep company crisis.

As psychological research shows, the reasons for this can range from a lack of expertise, to personal interest and displacement risk.

Against the backdrop of the last financial crisis, a fictional conversation between the management board and a risk manager over a period of 2 years clearly illustrates the opportunities available and the obstacles to implementing value and risk-oriented style company leadership, as well as internal company conflict. In addition to basic knowledge of what are often seen as new methods in controlling, risk management, rating and value-oriented company management, the reader also discovers what they probably know from practice – vanity and self-interest on the part of the protagonists.

In addition to this dialogue, the book offers a business economics methodology introduction to legal requirements, risk management use and methods, as well as ratings and value-oriented company management.

Suggested Citation:

Gleißner, Werner, Introduction to Risk Management: For Board Members and Managing Directors (April 19, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3165523 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3165523
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Eine Auswahl weiterer Literatur, zu den hier genannten relevanten Methoden
K Füser , W Gleißner , G Meier
Risikomanagement (KonTraG) -Erfahrungen aus der Praxis , volume 15 , p. 753 - 758 Posted: 1999
W Gleißner
Risikopolitik und Strategische Unternehmensführung , volume 33 , p. 1625 - 1629 Posted: 2000
W Gleißner
Hrsg.) Wertorientiertes Risikomanagement für Industrie und Handel
Identifikation, Messung und Aggregation von Risiken , p. 111 - 137 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,084
RANK
568,026
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies