Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economics of Accounting

Oxford University Press, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 6 May 2018 Last revised: 8 Apr 2024

Richard M. Frankel

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin Business School

S.P. Kothari

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Luo Zuo

National University of Singapore; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

Date Written: April 5, 2024

Abstract

Our objective is to spell out accounting’s economic roles. Our thesis is that earnings and other accounting outputs help firms function more efficiently. Within the firm, accounting information makes contracts work better and aids managerial decisions in the absence of available prices. In capital market exchanges, accounting information ameliorates information asymmetry, thereby enabling price discovery and reducing trading costs. We argue that accounting information is useful in stewardship and valuation despite its limitations. For pedagogical purposes, we first examine the attributes of accounting earnings as produced and received in the market without delving into how the preparers’ incentives influence the fineness of information produced or its properties. Readers can view this discussion as a reduced-form analysis of accounting earnings and their relation to stock prices. After mapping this landscape, we then present a strategic analysis of accounting earnings. This analysis recognizes that accounting information affects users’ and producers’ decisions, which, combined with self-interested behavior, influences the properties of the accounting information produced and affects how it is used in valuation, contracting, and firms’ investment decisions. Shareholder value is our primary efficiency measure, and we also discuss regulatory, social, and contract efficiency. We note that shareholder value maximization and stakeholder protection are not at odds and that accounting information facilitates firms’ commitment to stakeholder protection, which, in turn, leads to more value creation for shareholders.

Keywords: Accounting, stewardship, valuation, information asymmetry, earnings, stock price, shareholder value, efficiency, stakeholder

JEL Classification: D82, D86, G10, G12, G14, G30, K22, L21, M41, M42.

Suggested Citation:

Frankel, Richard M. and Kothari, S.P. and Zuo, Luo, The Economics of Accounting (April 5, 2024). Oxford University Press, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3165085 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3165085
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
409 References
M Bertrand , A Schoar
Managing with style: The effect of managers on firm policies
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 4 , p. 1169 - 1208 Posted: 2003
R H Coase
The institutional structure of production
American Economic Review , volume 82 , issue 4 , p. 713 - 719 Posted: 1992
E F Fama
Contract costs, stakeholder capitalism, and ESG
European Financial Management , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 189 - 195 Posted: 2021
E Gibbon
The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire Posted: 1776
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,665
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,282
RANK
4,747
1 Citations
409 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies