Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who’s Paying Attention? Measuring Common Ownership and Its Impact on Managerial Incentives

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 568/2018

74 Pages Posted: 6 May 2018 Last revised: 6 Sep 2019

Erik Gilje

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Todd A. Gormley

Washington University in St. Louis; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Doron Levit

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Center for Economic and Policy Research

Date Written: June 20, 2019

Abstract

We derive a measure that captures the extent to which common ownership shifts managers’ incentives to internalize externalities. A key feature of the measure is that it allows for the possibility that not all investors are attentive to whether a manager’s actions benefit the investor’s overall portfolio. Empirically, we show that potential drivers of common ownership, including mergers in the asset management industry and, under certain circumstances, even indexing, could diminish managerial motives to internalize externalities. Our findings illustrate the importance of accounting for investor inattention when analyzing whether the growth of common ownership affects managerial incentives.

Keywords: Common Investors, Indexing, Institutional Ownership, Managerial Incentives

JEL Classification: D82, D83, G34

Suggested Citation:

Gilje, Erik and Gormley, Todd A. and Levit, Doron, Who’s Paying Attention? Measuring Common Ownership and Its Impact on Managerial Incentives (June 20, 2019). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 568/2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3165574 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3165574
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,047
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,477
RANK
17,907
12 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies