Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Due Diligence Procedures and Principles for Financial Analysis and Corporate Governance

Journal of Corporate Finance Research, Vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 107-114, 2018

8 Pages Posted: 7 May 2018

Hugh Grove

University of Denver - Accounting and Finance

Mac Clouse

University of Denver - Accounting and Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

An initial set of seven procedures is developed for assessing a company’s common stock. A second set of ten procedures is developed for performing stealth or external financial (forensic) analysis on a company’s common stock. Also, a set of eight corporate governance principles, developed in secret over one year by 13 prominent CEOs of U.S. based, global companies, are elaborated for analyzing a company’s corporate governance practices in this paper. The purpose of this paper is to portray how these procedures and principles can be used by financial analysts and Boards of Directors in helping to assess the viability of the companies they are analyzing or serving and to develop key questions to ask of corporate executives. Thus, the first set of procedures elaborates seven reasons to consider in assessing a company’s stock. The second set of procedures develops ten steps of stealth forensics to investigate the possibility of financial shenanigans or fraud by a company. The last set of eight principles assesses the strength of corporate governance in a company. The importance of these principles is demonstrated by matching them with the practices of just 18 mainly global companies that managed to destroy $1.5 trillion of market capitalization. All these twenty-five procedures and principles will help strengthen financial analysis and corporate governance, especially for the role of financial analysts and Boards of Directors in assessing the value of companies’ common stock for investors.

Keywords: Due Diligence, Financial Analysis, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Grove, Hugh and Clouse, Mac, Due Diligence Procedures and Principles for Financial Analysis and Corporate Governance (2018). Journal of Corporate Finance Research, Vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 107-114, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3166208
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
S Chan
Financial Crisis Was Avoidable, Inquiry Finds. The New York Times Posted: 2011-01-25
J Chanos
History of Financial Market Fraud: A Forensic Approach
MGT , volume 848 Posted: 2017
Commonsense Principles of Corporate Governance Posted: 2016
Crossref
Forbes
The 10 Biggest Frauds in Recent U.S. History Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,787
RANK
195,121
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies