Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Lengthy and Boilerplate Risk Factor Disclosures Inadequate? An Examination of Judicial and Regulatory Assessments of Risk Factor Language

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 18-43

69 Pages Posted: 9 May 2018 Last revised: 10 Dec 2019

Richard A. Cazier

University of North Texas

Jeff L. McMullin

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

John Treu

West Virginia University - College of Business & Economics

Date Written: April 23, 2018

Abstract

Although formal guidance instructs firms to avoid issuing lengthy and boilerplate risk factor disclosures, regulators and users of financial statements note these disclosures continue to be excessively long and boilerplate. The persistence of these characteristics is particularly surprising given that prior research finds firms disclosing lengthy and boilerplate risk factors experience negative capital market consequences. We investigate two potential sources of firms’ incentives to issue such disclosures by examining how judicial and regulatory assessments of firms’ risk factor disclosures correlate with measures of disclosure length and disclosure boilerplate. Our results suggest that lengthier and more boilerplate risk factor disclosures are less likely to be considered inadequate under judicial and regulatory review. Specifically, risk factors that are lengthier and less specific are less likely to be found inadequate by judges in shareholder securities lawsuits. In addition, more standardized risk factor disclosures are less likely to be targeted by an SEC comment letter during the SEC’s filing review process. Further analysis finds that when risk factor language is assessed as adequate in judicial review, industry peers borrow that language more frequently. Finally, we find that judicial assessments of risk factor disclosures prompt industry peers to lengthen their own risk factor disclosures regardless of whether the risk disclosure was deemed adequate or not.

Keywords: risk disclosure, boilerplate, litigation risk, securities lawsuits, SEC comment letters, disclosure regulation, text analysis, disclosure borrowing

JEL Classification: D8, G38, M4

Suggested Citation:

Cazier, Richard A. and McMullin, Jeff L. and Treu, John, Are Lengthy and Boilerplate Risk Factor Disclosures Inadequate? An Examination of Judicial and Regulatory Assessments of Risk Factor Language (April 23, 2018). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 18-43, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3167611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3167611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
J D Angrist , J Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
A Arya , J Glover , B Mittendorf , G Narayanamoorthy
Unintended consequences of regulating disclosures: The case of Regulation Fair Disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 243 - 252 Posted: 2005
Crossref
D Azarkh
Risk Factor Drafting for a Registration Statement
Lexis Practice Advisor Posted: 2019-07-04
A Beatty , L Cheng , H Zhang
Are Risk Factor Disclosures Still Relevant? Evidence from Market Reactions to Risk Factor Disclosures Before and After the Financial Crisis
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
928
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,320
RANK
58,005
26 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies