Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance, Institutional Characteristics, and Director Networks in Malaysia

Jamaludin, M. F. & Hashim, F. (2017). Corporate governance, institutional characteristics and director network in Malaysia. Asian Academy of Management Journal of Accounting and Finance, 13(2), 135–154. DOI/10.21315/aamjaf2017.13.2.7

20 Pages Posted: 10 May 2018

Mohd Faizal Jamaludin

Politeknik Tuanku Sultanah Bahiyah

Fathyah Hashim

Universiti Sains Malaysia (USM) - Graduate School of Business

Date Written: October 9, 2017

Abstract

This study explores the structural relationship of director networks among boards of directors in publicly listed companies in Malaysia using social network analysis (SNA) techniques at both the director and company levels. This paper examines whether company corporate governance practices and institutional characteristics are associated with company network size and pattern. SNA performed using UCINET and NetDraw software shows that the directors and company in the networking are moderately connected. This suggests that there is a small group of directors or companies that are well-connected and well-positioned to exercise power, control, and influence over the network. This study also reveals the interconnectedness of board members and companies. The regression results also identify a group of the most well-connected and well-positioned directors and companies in Malaysia’s corporate governance environment. The results suggest that board size, board meeting, and duality are the corporate governance practices, which most influence company network size and pattern. The presence of a Bumiputera or politically connected director is an institutional characteristic, which especially determines the network of a company.

Keywords: Board of Directors, Corporate Governance, Director Network, Institutional Characteristics, Social Network Analysis

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Jamaludin, Mohd Faizal and Hashim, Fathyah, Corporate Governance, Institutional Characteristics, and Director Networks in Malaysia (October 9, 2017). Jamaludin, M. F. & Hashim, F. (2017). Corporate governance, institutional characteristics and director network in Malaysia. Asian Academy of Management Journal of Accounting and Finance, 13(2), 135–154. DOI/10.21315/aamjaf2017.13.2.7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3168253
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Abd , A Hamid
Network governance in government-linked companies (GLCs) and non-government linked companies (NGLCs) in Malaysia
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 54 - 73 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S N Abdullah
Board composition, CEO duality and performance among Malaysian listed companies
Corporate Governance , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 47 - 61 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R A Al-Dhamari , K N I K Ismail
Governance structure, ownership structure and earnings predictability: Malaysian evidence
Asian Academy of Management Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2013
C R Aviña-Vázquez , S Uddin
Network of board of directors in Mexican corporations: A social network analysis
the Seventh Asia Pacific Interdisciplinary Research in Accounting Conference , p. 26 - 28 Posted: 2013-07
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,509
RANK
416,013
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies