Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Governance, Risk and Bank Insolvency: Evidence from Tunisian Banks

International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting, Vol 7, No 2 (2017)

21 Pages Posted: 10 May 2018

Nesrine Djebali

Jendouba University - Faculty of Law, Economics and Management of Jendouba

Khemais Zaghdoudi

Faculty of Law, Economics and Management of Jendouba, Tunisia

Date Written: December 25, 2017

Abstract

The aim of this paper is twofold. Firstly, it investigates the effect of bank governance on bank risk measured by the standard deviation of the return on assets (SDROA). Secondly, it tests the relationship between bank governance mechanisms and bank insolvency proxied by the Zscore (ROA). To achieve this goal, we used a sample of 11 Tunisian banks observed during the period 2006-2015. These 11 banks are considered as the most dynamic banks in the Tunisian banking system. The econometric approach used in this study is based on panel data analysis especially fixed and random effect models. Empirical results indicate that the presence of Supervisory Committee and monitoring of risks (COR), the executive compensation (REMB) and the board size (BDSIZE) increases significantly Tunisian bank risk and insolvency. However, the presence of independent directors (INDD) and the proportion of institutional investors decrease bank risk and bank insolvency. With regard to the effect on the macroeconomic condition, only inflation rate exerts a significant effect. However, this effect is negative when the dependent variable is SDROA and positive for Z-score. The effect of GDP is not significant for both bank risk and bank stability.

Keywords: Bank governance, Bank risk, Bank stability, SDROA, Z-score, Tunisian banks

Suggested Citation:

Djebali, Nesrine and Zaghdoudi, Khemais, Bank Governance, Risk and Bank Insolvency: Evidence from Tunisian Banks (December 25, 2017). International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting, Vol 7, No 2 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3168733
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
A Abdo , G Fisher
The Impact of Reported Corporate Governance Disclosure on the Financial Performance of Companies listed on the JSE
Investment Analyst Journal , volume 66 , p. 43 - 56 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M G Abobakr , K Elgiziry
The Relationship Between Board of Directors' Characteristics and Bank Risk-Taking: Evidence from Egyptian Banking Sector
Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 24 - 33 Posted: 2017
V Aebi , G Sabato , &amp; M Schmid
Risk Management, Corporate Governance, and Bank Performance in the Financial Crisis
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2012
M Ammann , D Oesch , M M Schmid
Corporate governance and firm value: International evidence
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 36 - 55 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,169
RANK
514,660
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies