Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effectiveness of COSO Framework to Evaluate Internal Control System: The Case of Kurdistan Companies

Cihan International Journal of Social Science, Vol. 1, No. 1, p.44 (Jul. – Sep. 2017); ISSN 2523 2002

11 Pages Posted: 10 May 2018

Thabit Thabit

Ninevah University

Alan Solaimanzadah

Cihan University

Muath T. Al-abood

Cihan University

Date Written: October 1, 2017

Abstract

The paper aims to evaluate the quality of internal control system in Kurdistan, using COSO framework. Since 2013, COSO framework has been prominent assessing, implementing, and evaluating the effectiveness of internal control. Therefore, there is a lack of COSO framework researches in Kurdistan. In this paper, the researchers address the level of deviation of internal control system in Kurdistan companies from COSO framework we evaluated this deviation by applying Lean Diagnoses Tool (LDT). We found that there is a gap between internal control system in Kurdistan companies and the requirements under COSO framework. COSO framework can be applied in Kurdistan companies if they enhance their internal control system according to international internal control standards.

Keywords: Internal Control System, Lean Diagnoses Tool, COSO Framework, Kurdistan Companies

JEL Classification: M00, Y20

Suggested Citation:

Thabit, Thabit and Solaimanzadah, Alan and Al-abood, Muath T., The Effectiveness of COSO Framework to Evaluate Internal Control System: The Case of Kurdistan Companies (October 1, 2017). Cihan International Journal of Social Science, Vol. 1, No. 1, p.44 (Jul. – Sep. 2017); ISSN 2523 2002, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3168888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Alvin A Arens
Auditing And Assurance Services: An Integrated Approach Posted: 2012
Internal Control-Integrated Framework, Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission Posted: 1992
Internal Control -Integrated Framework: Executive Summary, Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission Posted: 2013
David Brewer , William List
Measuring the effectiveness of an internal control system, Gamma Secure Systems Limited Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,779
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,183
RANK
10,939
13 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies