Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Potential Sources of Value from Mergers and Their Indicators

Antitrust Bulletin, Forthcoming

33 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2018

Melissa A. Schilling

New York University (NYU) - Department of Management and Organizational Behavior

Date Written: February 25, 2018

Abstract

Firms engage in mergers for many reasons, some of which create value for both the firm’s shareholders and society, some that create value only for the firm’s shareholders, and some that fail even to do that. A considerable body of research concludes that most mergers do not create value for anyone, except perhaps the investment bankers that negotiated the deal. For a merger to create value, it will usually be necessary that one or both parties is below minimum efficient scale or has valuable underutilized assets. Furthermore, unless heavy coordination and long-term commitment are required, many sources of value from mergers can be achieved through collaboration agreements or other contracts, with less risk to the firms and to economic efficiency. This article outlines the major sources of potential value in mergers, and indicators that can give us insight into a merger’s true motives and its likelihood of creating value.

Keywords: mergers, acquisitions, shareholder value, economies of scale, complementation, ecosystems

JEL Classification: L11, L12, L16, L24, L25, L41, L93, M20

Suggested Citation:

Schilling, Melissa A., Potential Sources of Value from Mergers and Their Indicators (February 25, 2018). Antitrust Bulletin, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3168473 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3168473
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
For Example , J J Aagrawal , &amp; Jaffe , Gn Mandelker
The Post-Merger Performance Of Acquiring Firms: A Re-Examination Of An Anomaly 47
JOURNAL OF FINANCE Posted: 1992
P
M André , &amp; J L&apos; Kooli , Her
The Long-Run Performance of Mergers: Evidence from the Canadian Stock Market , volume 33 Posted: 2004
E Berkovitch , Narayanan
Motives for Takeovers: An Empirical Investigation 28
JOURNAL OF FINANCE AND QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS , volume 347 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Tomas Casas , Guido Cozzi
Elite Quality Report 2020: 32 Country Scores and Global Rank
100 Pages · Posted: 21 Aug 2020 · Last revised: 31 Aug 2020 · Downloads: 5,606
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Donald Kalff
Enterprise Models and the EU Agenda
19 Pages · Posted: 5 Apr 2021 · Downloads: 42
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,580
RANK
396,898
2 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies