Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Vulture Funds and the Fresh Start Accounting Value of Firms Emerging from Bankruptcy

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting 2018;45:410–436

Posted: 10 May 2018

Miles B. Gietzmann

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Helena Isidro

ISCTE-IUL Instituto Universitario de Lisboa

Ivana Raonic

City University London - The Business School

Date Written: December 5, 2017

Abstract

We study how distress-oriented hedge funds (vulture funds) play an important role in the fresh start valuation of firms emerging from Chapter 11 reorganization. We find that loan-to-own vultures acquire debt positions of the distressed firm that grant dominant power in the bankruptcy negotiations, and they then use the discretion allowed by fresh start accounting to introduce valuation bias in their favor. We show that the strategic influence over fresh start values can create opportunities to increase vulture investors’ returns at the expense of other claim holders.

Keywords: bankruptcy, distress, hedge fund, reporting discretion, valuation

JEL Classification: G14, G23, G33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gietzmann, Miles B. and Isidro, Helena and Raonic, Ivana, Vulture Funds and the Fresh Start Accounting Value of Firms Emerging from Bankruptcy (December 5, 2017). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting 2018;45:410–436 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3169902
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,103
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies