Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Power and CSR Compensation Contracts

22 Pages Posted: 10 May 2018

Tanner Ferreira

University of Western Ontario - Department of Economics

Date Written: April 26, 2018

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to investigate whether powerful executives are more likely to have compensation contracts that are tied to social performance. Interestingly, my findings show that powerful executives are more likely to have compensation contracts that are weakly tied to CSR – that is, Opaque CSR contracts. Under certain assumption about executive preferences and different compensation contracts, my findings also show that powerful executives are not able to significantly influence the compensation contracts they receive. Hence, given the positive relationship that is observed to exist between Opaque CSR contracts and firm performance, it appears that firms are still able to achieve optimal contracting within a setting of powerful executives.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, CRS Compensation Contracts, Executive Compensation, Executive Power

Suggested Citation:

Ferreira, Tanner, Executive Power and CSR Compensation Contracts (April 26, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3169687 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3169687
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
A Barnea , A Rubin
Corporate social responsibility as a conflict between shareholders
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 97 , p. 71 - 86 Posted: 2010
Crossref
L Bebchuk , K Cremers , U Peyer
The CEO pay slice
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 199 - 221 Posted: 2011
Crossref
L Bebchuk , J Fried , D Walker
Managerial power and rent extraction in the design of executive compensation , volume 69 , p. 751 - 846 Posted: 2002
Crossref
C Hill , P Phan
CEO tenure as a determinant of CEO pay
Academy of Management Journal , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 707 - 717 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,390
RANK
436,820
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies