Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mergers and the Market for Busy Directors: An International Analysis

Journal of Financial Research, 42 (3), 449-489.

61 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2018 Last revised: 28 Sep 2020

Stephen P. Ferris

University of Missouri at Columbia - Department of Finance

Narayanan Jayaraman

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Min-Yu (Stella) Liao

Illinois State University - Department of Finance, Insurance and Law

Date Written: April 15, 2018

Abstract

Using 13,233 acquisitions from 57 countries, we examine M&A decisions made by busy boards. We find that few busy acquirers originate from emerging markets and that they tend to undertake cross-border mergers, favor public targets, finance with cash and equity, pursue non-diversifying mergers, avoid targets with multiple bidders, and long-term underperform relative to non-busy acquirers. Importantly, we discover a non-linear relation between an acquirer’s board busyness and announcement returns. We find that the labor market penalizes directors who approve bad acquisitions, but does not reward them for good mergers. We observe that acquirers with busy boards consistently underperform.

Keywords: directors; busy boards; governance; mergers and acquisitions

JEL Classification: G3; G34

Suggested Citation:

Ferris, Stephen P. and Jayaraman, Narayanan and Liao, Min-Yu (Stella), Mergers and the Market for Busy Directors: An International Analysis (April 15, 2018). Journal of Financial Research, 42 (3), 449-489., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3170753 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3170753
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,918
RANK
469,965
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies