Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of the 2008 Financial Crisis on Corporate Social Responsibilities: Evidence from Multinational Companies

Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol. 8, No.16, 2017

11 Pages Posted: 14 May 2018

Evans Tee

UPSA

Lawrence Boadi Asare

University of Professional Studies - Department of Banking and Finance

Richard Takyi Opoku

Islamic University College, Ghana

Obeng-Darko Tabitha

Unicredit Bank AG

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of financial crisis on the number and extent of CSR projects. The assumption is that, during a financial crisis, organizations act more conservatively and defensively and as such fail to balance the expectations of related parties. This study made use of secondary data in analysing the effect of the 2008 financial crises on the corporate social responsibility as well as analysing relationship between corporate social responsibility and financial performance of some 30 firms randomly sampled from the FTSE 100 in the United Kingdom. The secondary data for the study were retrieved from the Bloomberg database. Paired sample T-test, Pearson Correlation and regression analysis were used to find out whether there is significant difference between corporate social responsibility score in 2007 and 2008. The study revealed a positives significant relationship between CSR in 2007 and 2008. Though there was a positive highly significant rise in the CSR during the 2008 financial crises, there was no enough evidence to attribute the rise to the effects of the financial crises. Also, the impact of the CSR on the firms’ profitability during the 2008 financial crises was negative but insignificant. The study adds to the literature by contributing to the discussions on CSR and the ways they are affected by financial crisis.

Keywords: financial crisis, corporate social responsibility, financial performance

Suggested Citation:

Tee, Evans and Asare, Lawrence Boadi and Opoku, Richard Takyi and Tabitha, Obeng-Darko, The Effect of the 2008 Financial Crisis on Corporate Social Responsibilities: Evidence from Multinational Companies (2017). Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol. 8, No.16, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3170572
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
References Ali , I Rehman , K Ali , S I Yousaf , J Zia , M
Corporate social responsibility influences, employee commitment and organizational performance
African Journal of Business Management , volume 4 , issue 12 , p. 2796 - 2801 Posted: 2010
H Al-Malkawi , N Raffert , R Pillai
Dividend policy: A review of theory and empirical evidence
International Bulletin of Business Administration , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 171 - 200 Posted: 2010
A Argandona
Can Corporate Social Responsibility Help Us Understand the Credit Crisis? IESE Business School, University of Navarra Posted: 2009-03
J E Bartlett , J W Kotrilik , C C Higgins
Organisational Research: Determining appropriate sample size in survey research
Information Technology, Learning and Performance Journal , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 50 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
633
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,247
RANK
96,304
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies