Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Imprecision

The Accounting Review (TAR), 96 (2021), pp. 33-53.

44 Pages Posted: 4 May 2018 Last revised: 1 Jun 2022

Ryan T. Ball

The Stephen M. Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan

Christine Cuny

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Date Written: April 9, 2020

Abstract

This study develops and applies a model-implied measure of information imprecision. We define information imprecision as the degree of noise in investors' prior beliefs about the firm's asset value based on the information set that is currently available. We present a model of credit default swap (CDS) spreads in which the term structure is a function of information imprecision. We exploit observable CDS spreads with short and long maturities to extract an empirical measure of information imprecision. We then examine the moderating role of our measure in two settings. First, we show that the equity market response to credit rating changes increases in the level of information imprecision before the announcement. Second, we show that bond-market professionals' ability to charge a premium to smaller investors, relative to larger investors, increases in the issuing firm's information imprecision. This evidence illustrates the broad applicability of our model-implied measure of information imprecision.

Keywords: Information Imprecision, CDS Spreads, Credit Ratings, Bond Trading

JEL Classification: D82, G14, G24

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ryan T. and Cuny, Christine, Information Imprecision (April 9, 2020). The Accounting Review (TAR), 96 (2021), pp. 33-53., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3171824 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3171824
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
B Ajinkya , M Gift
Corporate managers' earnings forecasts and symmetrical adjustments of market expectations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , p. 425 - 444 Posted: 1984
N Arora , S Richardson , I Tuna
Asset reliability and security prices: Evidence from credit markets
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 363 - 395 Posted: 2014
H Bessembinder , W Maxwell , K Venkataraman
Market transparency, liquidity externalities, and institutional trading costs in corporate bonds
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 82 , p. 251 - 288 Posted: 2006
A Beyer , I Guttman , I Marinovic
Earnings management and earnings quality: Theory and evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , p. 77 - 101 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
788
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,188
RANK
72,514
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies