Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Market Short-Termism’s Impact

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 426/2018

Harvard Public Law Working Paper No. 18-28

57 Pages Posted: 11 May 2018 Last revised: 12 Aug 2020

Mark J. Roe

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: October 22, 2018

Abstract

Stock-market-driven short-termism is crippling the American economy, according to legal, judicial, and media analyses. Firms forgo the R&D they need, cut capital spending, and buy back their own stock so feverishly that they starve themselves of cash. The stock market is the primary cause: directors and executives cannot manage for the long-term when their shareholders furiously trade their company’s stock, they cannot make long-term investments when stockholders demand to see profits on this quarter’s financial statements, they cannot even strategize about the long-term when shareholder activists demand immediate results, and they cannot keep the cash to invest in their future when stock market pressure drains away that cash in stock buybacks.


This doomsday version of the stock-market-driven short-termism argument entails economy-wide predictions that have not been well-examined for their severity and accuracy. If the scenario is correct and strong, we should first see sharp increases in stock trading in recent decades and more frequent activist interventions, and these increases should be accompanied by (1) sharply declining investment spending in the United States, where large firms depend on stock markets and where activists are important, as compared to advanced economies that do not depend as much on stock markets, (2) buybacks bleeding cash out from the corporate sector, (3) economy-wide R&D spending declining from what it should be, and (4) a stock market unwilling to support innovative, long-term, technological firms. These are the central channels from stock market-driven short-termism to overall economic degradation. They justify corporate law policies that seek to prevent these outcomes.


But these predicted economy-wide outcomes are either undemonstrated, implausible, or untrue. Corporate R&D is not declining, corporate cash is not bleeding out, and the world’s developed nations with neither American-style quarterly oriented stock markets nor aggressive activist investors are investing no more in capital equipment than the United States. The five largest American firms by stock market capitalization are tech-oriented, R&D intensive, longer-term operations. The economy-wide picture is more one of capital markets moving capital from larger, older firms to younger ones; of a post-industrial economy doing more R&D than ever; and of an economy whose investment intensity depends on overall economic activity, not stock market trading nor hedge fund activism. True, the economy-wide data could hide stock-market hits that hold back R&D from increasing more and that weaken American capital spending more than is fitting for a post-industrial economy. But if so, these have not been shown and several seem implausible. Hence, the calamitous form of the stock-market-driven short-termist argument needs to be reconsidered, recalibrated, and, quite plausibly, rejected.


Then, last, comes the broadest question: why has a view that lacks strong economy-wide evidentiary support become the rare corporate governance issues that attracts attention from the media, political players, policymakers, and the public—and that is widely accepted as true? I suggest why in this paper’s final part.

Keywords: short-termism, investor horizons, myopia, R&D, capital expenditures, buybacks, shareholder activism, blockholders, board insulation, corporate governance, hedge funds, long-term value, private equity, venture capital

JEL Classification: D21, G3, G18, G28, G30, G34, G38, H73, K4, K20, K22, K42, L21

Suggested Citation:

Roe, Mark J., Stock Market Short-Termism’s Impact (October 22, 2018). European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 426/2018, Harvard Public Law Working Paper No. 18-28, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3171090 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3171090
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
See Ronald , J Gilson , Charles F Sabel &amp; Robert , E Scott
Contracting for Innovation: Vertical Disintegration and Interfirm Collaboration
109 COLUM. L. REV , volume 431 , p. 439 - 479 Posted: 2009
W Walter , Powell , W Kenneth
Koput & Laurel Smith-Doerr, Interorganizational Collaboration and the Locus of Innovation: Networks of Learning in Biotechnology
ADMIN. SCI. Q , volume 116 , p. 122 - 146 Posted: 1996
Weijan Shan , Gordon Walker &amp; Bruce , Kogut
Interfirm Cooperation and Startup Innovation in the Biotechnology Industry, 15 STRATEGIC MGMT
J , volume 387 , p. 387 - 88 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Bengt Holmstrom
Agency Costs and Innovation, 12
J. ECON. BEHAV. & ORG , volume 305 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,263
ABSTRACT VIEWS
14,742
RANK
15,222
7 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies