Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Deferral Plans and Insider Trading

35 Pages Posted: 12 May 2018

Francesca Franco

Bocconi University

Oktay Urcan

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 30, 2018

Abstract

We study executive equity contributions to non-qualified deferred compensation plans, which consist in the election to defer part or all of the annual cash pay into the company’s stock. These transactions provide executives with an alternative channel to purchase shares in the firm while benefiting from a defence against illegal insider trading allegations. Using a large sample of executive deferrals over 2000-2014, we find evidence that executives use these transactions as a means to acquire the company’s stock during blackout windows. Consistent with the conjecture that deferrals benefit from lower litigation costs that inhibit insider trading before the release of corporate news, we also find that deferral amounts are significantly higher (lower) before the disclosure of good (bad) earnings news. Together, these results suggest that executives can use equity deferrals to circumvent Rule 10b5 restrictions and generate substantial returns by strategically selecting timing and content of corporate disclosures around these transactions.

Keywords: Deferred Compensation, Rule 10b5-1 Plans, Insider Trading

JEL Classification: J33, D84

Suggested Citation:

Franco, Francesca and Urcan, Oktay, Executive Deferral Plans and Insider Trading (April 30, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3171042 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3171042
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J C Bettis , J L Coles , M L Lemmon
Corporate policies restricting trading by insiders
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 57 , p. 191 - 220 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M E Carter , L J Lynch , I Tuna
The role of accounting in the design of CEO equity compensation
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 357 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Q Cheng , K Lo
Insider trading and voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 5 , p. 815 - 848 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,118
RANK
325,744
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies