Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Sox Act in Enhancing the Internal Control Systems of Kurdistan Banks

International Conference on Accounting, Business, Economics and Politics proceedings (2018)

13 Pages Posted: 16 May 2018

Thabit Thabit

Ninevah University

Alan Solaimanzadah

Cihan University

Date Written: April 16, 2018

Abstract

This Paper aims to present the role of Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) in enhancing the Internal Control (IC) systems in banks, and to explain cons and pros of applying the act in developing countries.

The researchers display main topics of SOX Act, the possibilities for applying it in developing countries, and its impacts on IC system of banks.

They measured the role of SOX Act by distributing 50 questionnaires on a random group of bank's managers, and accountants in banks of Kurdistan. The questionnaires are analyzed by two statistical tools (Lean Diagnoses Tool and Fuzzy Logic) to get reliable information about the role of SOX Act in enhancing the IC systems in banks.

The researchers conclude that applying SOX Act in banks will make the IC systems in banks of developing countries stronger, and will provide managers and shareholders with high quality reports about IC systems in the banks.

Keywords: SOX Act, IC Systems, Banks of Kurdistan, LDT, and Fuzzy Logic

Suggested Citation:

Thabit, Thabit and Solaimanzadah, Alan, The Role of Sox Act in Enhancing the Internal Control Systems of Kurdistan Banks (April 16, 2018). International Conference on Accounting, Business, Economics and Politics proceedings (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3171693
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Eva Šimková
Impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on the System of Internal Controls and IS Audit
Systémová Integrace , issue 3 , p. 92 - 111 Posted: 2005
Zecong Li
Audit Committee, Corporate Governance and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Posted: 2002
Thabit H Thabit , Alnasrawi , A Hamed
The Role of International Financial Reporting Standards in Reducing the Financial Risks
International Journal of Latest Engineering Research and Applications , volume 1 , p. 73 - 82 Posted: 2016
Malek Alsharairi , Ahmad Refai
Pre-merger Earnings Management: Sarbanes Oxley, Leverage and Non-cash Acquisition Premia, Doctoral thesis Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,772
RANK
350,629
12 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies