Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclose Whatever You Have? The Quantity Effects of Earnings Forecasts

24 Pages Posted: 14 May 2018

Jens Guenther

Ruhr University of Bochum

Kai Huettermann

Ruhr-University Bochum; AURICON Consulting Group

Maximilian Peer Rowoldt

IVC Independent Valuation & Consulting AG WPG

Date Written: January 10, 2018

Abstract

This paper analyzes capital market consequences of deferred management earnings forecasts of Japanese publicly listed firms in the wake of the Great East Japan Earthquake on 11 March 2011. Employing the Peak Ground Acceleration at the firms’ headquarters as an instrument for the deferral, we find that non-guiding firms’ information asymmetry increases, while firm value decreases. The findings in context of the Japanese institutional setting suggest that earnings forecasts provide an important information signal to investors, even if information precision is very low.

Keywords: Management Earnings Forecasts, Asymmetric Information Pricing

JEL Classification: G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Guenther, Jens and Huettermann, Kai and Rowoldt, Maximilian Peer, Disclose Whatever You Have? The Quantity Effects of Earnings Forecasts (January 10, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3171080 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3171080
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Ajinkya Bipin , B Gift , J Michael
Corporate Managers Earnings Forecast and Symmetrical Adjustments of Market Expectations , volume 22 , p. 425 - 444 Posted: 1984
Yakov Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets (JFM) , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Stephen P Baginski , John M Hassell
The Market Interpretation of Management Earnings Forecasts as a Predictor of Subsequent Financial Analyst Forecast Revision
The Accounting Review (AR) , volume 65 , p. 175 - 190 Posted: 1990
Stephen P Baginski , Kenneth C Rakow
Management earnings forecast disclosure policy and the cost of equity capital
Review of Accounting Studies (RAS) , volume 17 , p. 279 - 321 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,287
RANK
718,946
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies