Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Board Structure on Firm Performance - New Evidence from Product Market Conditions

WBS Finance Group Research Paper No. 249

The European Journal of Finance, forthcoming

69 Pages Posted: 16 May 2018 Last revised: 25 Feb 2022

Xiaoyuan Hu

Cornerstone Research, Inc.

Danmo Lin

James Madison University - Finance and Business Law Program

Onur Kemal Tosun

Cardiff Business School - Accounting and Finance Section

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 24, 2022

Abstract

We study the effect of corporate board independence on firm performance under different product market conditions. Using customer-supplier links to identify exogenous downstream demand shocks, we find that firm performance is positively associated with board independence when the firm-specific product demand drops. The results are stronger for smaller firms and firms with high growth and more volatile stock returns. The findings prevail if the firm faces a medium level of product market competition or a medium level of downstream demand shock. We provide suggestive evidence for the board's monitoring function driving the effectiveness of board independence in bad times of idiosyncratic risks, rather than its advisory function.

Keywords: Board independence, firm performance, customer-supplier link, downstream demand shocks, product market competition

JEL Classification: C33,C36,G30,G32,L14,L22

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Xiaoyuan and Lin, Danmo and Tosun, Onur Kemal, The Effect of Board Structure on Firm Performance - New Evidence from Product Market Conditions (February 24, 2022). WBS Finance Group Research Paper No. 249, The European Journal of Finance, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3171998 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3171998
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of financial economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
F Allen , E Carletti , R Marquez
Stakeholder governance, competition, and firm value
Review of Finance , volume 19 , p. 1315 - 1346 Posted: 2015
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
831
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,149
RANK
65,483
2 Citations
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies