Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Corporate Governance on the Relationship between Accounting Quality and Trade Credit: Evidence from Japan

47 Pages Posted: 17 May 2018 Last revised: 14 Sep 2022

Masahiro Enomoto

Kobe University - Research Institute for Economics & Business Administration

Date Written: September 9, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates the effects of shareholdings on the relationship between accounting quality and trade credit in Japan. It focuses on cross- and stable shareholdings, which are well-known features of Japanese corporate governance, as a private information-sharing system. The relationships between cross- and stable shareholdings, accounting quality, and trade credit are tested. The results show that the trade credit of customers without either cross- or stable shareholdings increases with accounting quality, and in most cases, such shareholdings weaken the relationship between accounting quality and trade credit. These findings suggest that close ties to cross- and stable shareholders reduce the importance of accounting information through sharing private information.

Keywords: accounting quality, cross-shareholdings, main bank, stable shareholdings, trade credit

JEL Classification: G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Enomoto, Masahiro, Effects of Corporate Governance on the Relationship between Accounting Quality and Trade Credit: Evidence from Japan (September 9, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3171338 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3171338
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,230
RANK
251,747
1 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies