Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IRS Scrutiny and Corporate Innovation

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 17 May 2018 Last revised: 27 Jul 2023

Nathan C. Goldman

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Niklas Lampenius

University of Hohenheim - Faculty of Business, Economics and Social Sciences

Suresh Radhakrishnan

JSOM, University of Texas at Dallas

Arthur Stenzel

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Jose Elias Almeida

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) (Formerly University of Texas-Pan American) - Robert C. Vackar College of Business and Entrepreneurship

Date Written: July 27, 2023

Abstract

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) administers tax laws enacted by Congress. As part of the IRS’s duties, they often consider taxpayers’ financial statements to help ensure accurate tax reporting and payments. We posit that enhanced financial statement disclosures of tax information under FASB Interpretation Number 48 (FIN 48) lead to more IRS scrutiny and alter the incentives for corporate innovation. Using patent applications as a measure of corporate innovation, we employ a difference-in-difference research design with publicly listed U.S. firms as the treatment group and privately held U.S. firms not subject to the disclosure requirements as the control group. We find robust evidence that following the onset of FIN 48, the number of patent applications by publicly listed firms decreased by 15.4% to 24.3% relative to private firms. This decline in patent applications is attributable to incremental innovation, suggesting that firms lower innovation related to projects with tax benefits that are more likely to be scrutinized by the taxing authorities. These findings suggest that there are real effects of IRS scrutiny and, in particular, real effects of tax disclosures under FIN 48 on corporate innovation.

Keywords: IRS Scrutiny; Unrecognized Tax Benefits, FIN 48, Radical Innovation, Incremental Innovation, Patents, Backward Citations

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, O30, O38

Suggested Citation:

Goldman, Nathan C. and Lampenius, Niklas and Radhakrishnan, Suresh and Stenzel, Arthur and Almeida, Jose Elias, IRS Scrutiny and Corporate Innovation (July 27, 2023). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3174891 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3174891
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
489
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,033
RANK
133,220
1 Citations
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies