Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Green Regulation Effective or a Failure: Comparative Analysis between Bangladesh Bank (BB) Green Guidelines and Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines

Masud, M.A.K.; Hossain, M.S.; Kim, J.D. Is Green Regulation Effective or a Failure: Comparative Analysis between Bangladesh Bank (BB) Green Guidelines and Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines. Sustainability 2018, 10, 1267

19 Pages Posted: 21 May 2018

Md. Abdul Kaium Masud, PhD

Noakhali Science and Technology University

Mohammad Hossain

Uttara University, Bangladesh

Jong Dae Kim

Inha University - College of Business Administration

Date Written: April 20, 2018

Abstract

Green reporting and green regulation have been commonly used in the sustainability movement. This study evaluates Bangladesh Bank’s (BB’s) green regulation by considering the global reporting initiative (GRI) of environmental regulation along with self-determined content to justify BB’s institutional effort in the banking sector. The analytical study has considered secondary data of all listed banks on the Dhaka Stock Exchange between 2013 to 2016. A multi-theoretical framework has been adopted in which the research is comprised of institutional, stakeholder, and legitimacy theories. Considering the analytical research, we have drawn-up a green reporting score and undertaken SWOT analysis. The results of the study have identified the narrow coverage of BB’s regulation and strategic limitations. Moreover, the findings of the study show that banking companies disclosed more green information in line with BB’s regulation. Furthermore, our analysis has found the lack of transparency of green reporting in terms of absent global reporting as well as external verification. Additionally, we have documented that BB’s regulation falls into a legitimacy threat owing to political, corporate, and social responsibility. Therefore, we concluded that for BB to overcome all possible weaknesses and threats, it should consider all possible opportunities for a holistic international reporting framework while taking into account a transparent financial sector.

Keywords: green reporting, green banking, GRI, CSR, developing country, Bangladesh bank, SWOT

Suggested Citation:

Masud, Md. Abdul Kaium and Hossain, Mohammad and Kim, Jong Dae, Is Green Regulation Effective or a Failure: Comparative Analysis between Bangladesh Bank (BB) Green Guidelines and Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines (April 20, 2018). Masud, M.A.K.; Hossain, M.S.; Kim, J.D. Is Green Regulation Effective or a Failure: Comparative Analysis between Bangladesh Bank (BB) Green Guidelines and Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines. Sustainability 2018, 10, 1267, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3174566
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
M A K Masud , M S Hossain , Green
Banking and Reporting of Bangladeshi Commercial Banks: An Observation under Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Proceedings of the Global Conference on Business & Economics Posted: 2016-05-21
Crossref
W Schultze , R Trommer
The concept of environmental performance and its measurement in empirical studies
J. Manag. Control , volume 22 , p. 375 - 412 Posted: 2012
Crossref
E Albertini
Does Environmental Management Improve Financial Performance? A Meta-Analytical Review
Org. Environ , volume 26 , p. 431 - 457 Posted: 2013
Crossref
P Esteban-Sanchez , M De La Cuesta-Gonzalez , J D Paredes-Gazquez
Corporate social performance and its relation with corporate financial performance: International evidence in the banking industry
J. Clean , volume 162 , p. 1102 - 1110 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,340
RANK
672,649
1 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies