Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study on Corporate Social Reporting of Market Leaders

EPRA International Journal of Economic and Business Review, August 2017, Vol. 5(8)

12 Pages Posted: 21 May 2018

Sumita J Shroff

Institute of Commerce, Nirma University

Date Written: August 1, 2017

Abstract

Corporate social responsibility in today’s times has gained much attention abroad as well as in India. The governments of the economies across the globe are taking measures to ensure that the economic activities are not flourishing at the cost of the society, environment and the stakeholders of an organization. In this back drop the current study attempts to examine the corporate social reporting practices of the Indian market leaders over a period of 5 years from 2008-09 to 2012-13. The analysis revealed that there has been rise in the corporate social reporting disclosures over the study period with major rise being in the environmental management group. Further, an attempt was also made to examine the determinants of the corporate social reporting for the sample firms by taking firm size, leverage, board size, independence of board and profitability as explanatory variables and the corporate social responsibility disclosure score as response variable. The analysis revealed that, CSR activities of the market leaders is independent of all these variables and it is concluded that the market leaders consider CSR as their duty and the same is ingrained in their DNA.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, BSE SENSEX, Market Leaders, CSR Disclosure Index, Environmental Reporting

JEL Classification: Q01, M14, G11

Suggested Citation:

Shroff, Sumita J, A Study on Corporate Social Reporting of Market Leaders (August 1, 2017). EPRA International Journal of Economic and Business Review, August 2017, Vol. 5(8), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
The Athens Stock Exchange , volume 4 , p. 2693 - 2704 Posted: 2010-10
Crossref
M Firth
The impact of size, stock market listing, and auditors on voluntary disclosure in corporate annual reports
Accounting and Business Research , volume 9 , issue 36 , p. 273 - 280 Posted: 1979
Crossref
S S Cowen , L B Ferreri , L D Parker
The impact of corporate characteristics on social responsibility disclosure: a typology and frequency-based analysis. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 122 Posted: 1987
Crossref
K T Trotman , G W Bradley
Associations between social responsibility disclosure and characteristics of companies. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 6 , issue 4 , p. 355 - 362 Posted: 1981
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
979
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies