Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Has the Financial Regulatory Environment Improved in the UK? A Capture-Recapture Approach to Estimate Detection and Deterrence

50 Pages Posted: 23 May 2018

John Kevin Ashton

Bangor Business School; University of East Anglia (UEA)

Tim Burnett

University of Warwick

Ivan Diaz-Rainey

Department of Accounting, Finance and Economics, Griffith Business School, Griffith University

Peter L. Ormosi

Norwich Business School; University of East Anglia (UEA) - Centre for Competition Policy; Compass Lexecon

Date Written: May 11, 2018

Abstract

Have regulators improved their capacity to detect or deter financial misconduct since the global financial crisis? This study addresses this question through an analysis that differentiates between detection and deterrence of financial misconduct over the period 2002-2016. To make this determination a Capture-­Recapture, trap response model within a difference-in-differences framework is used to examine regulatory notices and supplementary information issued by UK financial regulators with corresponding Australian data employed as an unbiased control. Examining pre- and post-financial crisis periods, we offer evidence, whilst there was no statistically significant change in detection rates for breaches of financial regulation, there was a significant increase in the rate of deterrence occurred after 2010. We interpret this result as an increase in the efficacy of regulation of financial misconduct in recent years.

Keywords: misconduct risk, regulatory punishments, partial observability, Capture-Recapture, deterrence

JEL Classification: G18, G28, C19

Suggested Citation:

Ashton, John Kevin and Burnett, Tim and Diaz-Rainey, Ivan and Ormosi, Peter L. and Ormosi, Peter L., Has the Financial Regulatory Environment Improved in the UK? A Capture-Recapture Approach to Estimate Detection and Deterrence (May 11, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3176993 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3176993
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
F Allen , E Carletti
An overview of the crisis: Causes, consequences, and solutions
International Review of Finance , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2010
Crossref
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan
Posted: 2018
Crossref
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: a multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 732 - 783
Crossref
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , E Rouen
Financial statement errors: Evidence from the distributional properties of financial statement numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1540 - 1593 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,732
RANK
524,565
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies