Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Biomarker of Quality? Venture‐Backed Biotech IPOs and Insider Participation

Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, Vol. 30, Issue 1, pp. 78-88, 2018

13 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2023

Hans Jeppsson

University of Gothenburg - School of Business, Economics and Law

Date Written: Winter 2018

Abstract

Corporate financial managers of biotech firms need long‐term financing to reach key milestones, and that requires a long‐ term capital structure. They must balance a mix of investors with different objectives and different investment horizons that includes traditional venture capitalists and also hedge funds and mutual funds. This study helps practitioners understand the complex role of exit decisions, as venture capitalists seek better exit strategies and performance. IPOs are financing but not “exit” moves. In addition to certifying firm value, insider purchasing of shares in the IPO offering has two major consequences. First, venture capitalists reallocate large sums of capital from early‐stage to late‐stage deals that are expected to have lower risk (but also lower expected return) and shorter time to exit. Second, the speed at which VCs exit after the IPO depends on the firm ownership structure after the IPO and the stock liquidity. Going public with a significant participation by venture capitalists will probably increase the post‐IPO ownership and decrease the free float of the stock, implying a delay of the exit and the realization of the capital gains from the investments. Although this study has focused exclusively on the biotechnology industry, insider participation is not unique to it. Biotech's venture brethren in the software and technology industries also have insider participation in IPOs. During 2003–2015, approximately 41 venture‐backed firms outside of the biotechnology sector had insider participation.

Suggested Citation:

Jeppsson, Hans, Biomarker of Quality? Venture‐Backed Biotech IPOs and Insider Participation (Winter 2018). Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, Vol. 30, Issue 1, pp. 78-88, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3176252 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/jacf.12280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
B Espen , Eckbo
Equity Issues and the Disappearing Rights Offer Phenomenon
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 72 - 85 Posted: 2005
Eckbo and Masulis Posted: 1992
Espen B Bøhren , Dag Eckbo , Michalsen
Why Underwrite Rights Offerings? Some New Evidence
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 261 Posted: 1997
Bronwyn H Hall
The Financing of Research and Development
Oxford Review of Economic Policy , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 51 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,419
RANK
833,930
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies