Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does CEO Succession Planning (Disclosure) Create Shareholder Value?

forthcoming in the Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis

49 Pages Posted: 16 May 2018 Last revised: 23 Jul 2021

John J. McConnell

Purdue University

Qianru Qi

Telfer School of Management

Date Written: June 22, 2021

Abstract

Cumulative abnormal returns around proxy statements containing “in-depth” disclosures of planning for CEO succession are significantly positive indicating that succession planning is a value-adding undertaking. Further analyses, including exploiting a 2009 SEC ruling that induced more disclosures of succession planning, indicate that succession planning is not a one-size-fits-all undertaking in that succession planning is value-enhancing only for larger, older, more complex firms with lower stock return volatility. Other analyses support that in-depth disclosure of succession planning is a credible signal of actual planning and that in-depth disclosure of succession planning is value-reducing for firms that “should not” plan for succession.

Keywords: CEO succession, CEO turnover, proxy statement disclosures

Suggested Citation:

McConnell, John J. and Qi, Qianru, Does CEO Succession Planning (Disclosure) Create Shareholder Value? (June 22, 2021). forthcoming in the Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3176648 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3176648
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Agrawal , Charles R Anup , Theofanis Knoeber , Tsoulouhas
Are outsiders handicapped in CEO successions
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 619 - 644 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R W Anderson , M C Bustamante , S Guibaud , M Zervos
Agency, firm growth, and managerial turnover
The Journal of Finance , volume 73 , issue 1 , p. 419 - 464 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Annalisa Barrett
Does CEO succession planning disclosure matter? Investor Responsibility Research Center Institute Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
476
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,592
RANK
137,584
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies