Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When LIBOR becomes LIEBOR: Reputational Penalties and Bank Contagion

The Financial Review, 2021

44 Pages Posted: 23 May 2018 Last revised: 8 Apr 2021

Michele Fabrizi

University of Padua

Xing Huan

EDHEC Business School

Antonio Parbonetti

University of Padua

Date Written: July 13, 2020

Abstract

We study whether commonality of incentives and opportunity to commit fraud triggers reputational contagion from culpable firms to nonculpable firms. Relying on a sample of 30 banks involved in fixing the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and a control sample of 30 banks, we find that banks' reputations suffered substantial damage upon the announcement of their involvement in the scandal. We also document reputational contagion spread from banks that manipulated LIBOR to banks that shared the same incentives and opportunity to commit the fraud. The reputational contagion is more pronounced for large derivatives dealers who have had the strongest incentive to commit the fraud.

Keywords: Bank Contagion, Fraud Triangle, Operational Risk, Reputational Penalties

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Fabrizi, Michele and Huan, Xing and Parbonetti, Antonio, When LIBOR becomes LIEBOR: Reputational Penalties and Bank Contagion (July 13, 2020). The Financial Review, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3176745 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3176745
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Barclays emerged as a key focus of the investigation by the US and UK regulators. Bank of America and Citibank also received subpoenas
/07/2011 UBS confirmed the LIBOR investigation had widened scope to Yen rates
Crossref
/12/2011 Citigroup and UBS faced TIBOR penalties
Crossref
Deutsche Bank , Hsbc , Morgan
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, and UBS) over claims they have been fixing their interbank lending rates
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
294
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,223
RANK
236,690
6 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies