Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Policy and Organizational Form: Assessing the Effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017

National Tax Journal, Vol. 71, No. 4, 2018

Posted: 24 May 2018 Last revised: 1 Dec 2018

Erin Henry

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

George Plesko

University of Connecticut School of Business

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 23, 2018

Abstract

We provide historical context to assess the implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) on organizational form. We review the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (TRA86) to assess the extent of organizational form changes in response to changing tax incentives and the effects of those organizational form changes on business operations. We develop a simple analytic model to provide insight into the incentives created by the TCJA and briefly summarize practitioner observations regarding the incentives affecting organizational form decisions. Results suggest that an array of factors make the organizational form decision more difficult and less predictable than in 1986.

Keywords: organizational form, pass-through, corporate tax, tax rates

JEL Classification: H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Henry, Erin and Plesko, George A. and Utke, Steven, Tax Policy and Organizational Form: Assessing the Effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (July 23, 2018). National Tax Journal, Vol. 71, No. 4, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3177463 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3177463
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,803
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies