Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Short-Run Price Performance of IPOs and Corporate Governance Practices: Evidence from a Frontier Market

Corporate Governance and Sustainability Review, Volume 2, Issue 1, 2018

Posted: 16 Aug 2019 Last revised: 4 Jan 2022

S.M.R.K. Samarakoon

Wayamba University of Sri Lanka

Wasantha Perera

University of Sri Jayewardenepura

Date Written: May 13, 2018

Abstract

The short-run price performance of Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) indicates that the prices are often underpriced which is widely documented as a universal phenomenon. This phenomenon was first documented in the finance literature by Stoll and Curley (1970), Logue (1973) and Ibbotson (1975). To test the underpricing phenomenon, most researchers used the first listing day average return (Chan, Wang & Wei 2004; Chang et al. 2008; Dimovski & Brooks 2005; Finn & Higham 1988; Ibbotson, Sindelar & Ritter 1994; Lee, Taylor & Walter 1996; Loughran & Schultz 2006; Moshirian, Ng & Wu 2010; Omran 2005; Ritter 1987). Corporate governance refers to the set of systems, principles, and processes by which a company is governed. Establishing good corporate governance system in an IPO company makes good decisions which attract more outside investors.. Therefore, this study examines whether there is any impact of corporate governance practices on the short-run price performance of Sri Lankan IPOs. The study examined 44 fixed price IPOs which were listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) during the period of 2003 – January to 2015- December. The study found that Sri Lankan IPOs underprice by 30% on AR, which is statistically significant at 5% level. Further, it found that block holder ownership (ownership concentration), CEO duality and existence of the non-executive directors in the board are positively related to the short-run underpricing, which are statistically significant at 5%. But, the board size has a significant negative impact on underpricing. These relationships are in line with the international literature, which confirms that the corporate governance practices have a significant impact on the short-run price performance of IPOs in Sri Lanka. This findings also support the agency and signaling theories.

Keywords: Underpricing, Sri Lankan IPOs, Corporate governance

JEL Classification: M21, M5, M100

Suggested Citation:

Samarakoon, S.M.R.K. and Perera, Wasantha, Short-Run Price Performance of IPOs and Corporate Governance Practices: Evidence from a Frontier Market (May 13, 2018). Corporate Governance and Sustainability Review, Volume 2, Issue 1, 2018 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3177666
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
507
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies