Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Expert CEOS and Earnings Management Around Initial Public Offerings

International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 53, No. 4, 2018

46 Pages Posted: 24 May 2018

Dimitrios Gounopoulos

University of Bath - School of Management

Hang Pham

University of Essex - Essex Business School

Date Written: May 13, 2018

Abstract

This study examines the association between financial expert CEOs and earnings management (EM) around initial public offerings. We identify financial expert CEOs as those having past experience in either banking or investment firms, large auditing firms, or finance-related roles. We find strong evidence that newly listed firms with financial expert CEOs are less likely to engage in either accrual-based or real EM in the offering year than those with non-financial expert CEOs. In particular, our results are robust after controlling for the potential selection issue that occurs due to non-random matching of CEOs to firms. In addition, we employ alternative measures of financial expertise, including past experience in a CFO position, financial experience variety, and professional qualifications. We document that CEOs who used to work as CFOs and those who gained varied financial experience are less likely to manage earnings through both accruals and real activities. Moreover, CEOs who have a professional qualification in finance and/or accounting are also associated with lower accrual-based EM.

Keywords: IPOs,CEOs, financial expertise, earnings management

JEL Classification: G10, G14, G3

Suggested Citation:

Gounopoulos, Dimitrios and Pham, Hang, Financial Expert CEOS and Earnings Management Around Initial Public Offerings (May 13, 2018). International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 53, No. 4, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3177760
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
R B Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Aharony , C Lin , L Loeb
Initial public offerings, accounting choices, and earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 81 Posted: 1993
Crossref
N A Ahmad-Zaluki , K Campbell , A Goodacre
Earnings management in Malaysian IPOs: The East Asian crisis, ownership control, and post-IPO performance
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 137 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Alhadab , I Clacher , K Keasey
Real and accrual earnings management and IPO failure risk
Accounting and Business Research , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 55 - 92 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,763
RANK
319,999
2 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies