Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
National Corporate Governance, GMI Ratings and Earnings Management: A Country Level Study

Asian Review of Accounting, 26(3), pp. 373-390.

34 Pages Posted: 25 May 2018 Last revised: 16 Aug 2018

Moataz El-Helaly

School of Business, The American University in Cairo

Nermeen F. Shehata

The American University in Cairo

Reem El-Sherif

Rand Merchant Bank; University of Stellenbosch

Date Written: March 28, 2018

Abstract

Purpose: The main purpose of this paper is to assess the association between country-level corporate governance and earnings management. It aims to investigate whether the Governance Metrics International (GMI; acquired by Morgan Stanley Capital International in 2014) rating for national corporate governance on a country level is a significant explanatory variable for the country-level earnings management score or otherwise. Design/Methodology/Approach: In a sample of 280 country-year observations during the period from 2000–2009, the paper measures national corporate governance quality using GMI ratings scores and whether the corporate governance model is Anglo-Saxon or otherwise. Findings: The findings of this study show that corporate governance is a significant indicator of lower earnings management levels in a country. Practical Implications: Corporate governance rating firms play a vital role in public markets. GMI provides country-level corporate governance ratings to assess the quality of corporate governance in several countries. The findings of this study show preliminary evidence that GMI ratings of corporate governance provide good guidance to investors on the quality of corporate governance in a country. Originality/Value: This paper is the first empirical attempt to examine the association between country-level corporate governance, GMI ratings for country-level corporate governance and earnings management.

Keywords: corporate governance; earnings management; GMI ratings

JEL Classification: G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

El-Helaly, Moataz and Shehata, Nermeen F. and El-Sherif, Reem, National Corporate Governance, GMI Ratings and Earnings Management: A Country Level Study (March 28, 2018). Asian Review of Accounting, 26(3), pp. 373-390. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3178165 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3178165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
S Ahmad , R Omar
Basic corporate governance models: A systematic review
International Journal of Law and Management , volume 58 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 107 Posted: 2014
Crossref
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 Posted: 2013
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , R Lafond
Corporate governance and the cost of equity capital: An analysis of U.S. and non-U.S. firms' GMI ratings
Governance Metrics International sponsored research Posted: 2006
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,189
RANK
303,587
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies