Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What are the Effects of Employee Voice Mechanisms on Performance, Diversity, and Employee Satisfaction Dimensions in Public Corporations?

46 Pages Posted: 25 May 2018

Benjamin Colton

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE), Students

Date Written: May 10, 2018

Abstract

This study explores the impact of employee voice by comparing the characteristics between public corporations with and without employee engagement surveys in place. First, it provides evidence of the relationship between companies utilizing employee engagement surveys and various long-term performance indicators. Companies with employee engagement surveys are expected to generate significantly higher returns with lower volatility and display a lower probability of default. Second, it demonstrates correlations between companies with established employee engagement survey programs and dimensions of diversity, including director independence and gender diversity, at the senior management and board levels. Third, it extends organizational justice (OJ) literature by confirming a positive relationship between employee voice opportunities and their satisfaction level with leadership. Finally, the study suggests that the existence of employee engagement surveys provides an additional, robust proxy to gauge the level of diversity in thought within an organization.

Keywords: Employee voice, diversity in thought, gender diversity, corporate social responsibility, human resource management, organizational behavior

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Colton, Benjamin, What are the Effects of Employee Voice Mechanisms on Performance, Diversity, and Employee Satisfaction Dimensions in Public Corporations? (May 10, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3178382 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3178382
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
J Abbott , S Parker , T Presley
Female Board Presence and the Likelihood of Financial Restatement
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 607 - 629 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Adams
Inequity in social exchange Posted: 1965
Crossref
E Appelbaum
Work and Employment Relations in the High Performance Workplace
Continuum , p. 120 - 149 Posted: 2002
M Bashshur , B Oc
When Voice Matters: A Multilevel Review of the Impact of Voice in Organizations
Journal of Management , volume 4 , issue 5 , p. 1530 - 1554 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
464
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,856
RANK
141,919
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies