Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance Issues in Dual Class Share Firms

Forthcoming in Annals of Corporate Governance

69 Pages Posted: 25 May 2018

Anita Anand

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law

Date Written: May 14, 2018

Abstract

In a typical public company, shareholders can elect the board, appoint auditors, and approve fundamental changes. Firms with dual class share (DCS) structures alter this balance by inviting the subordinate shareholders to carry the financial risk of investing in the corporation without providing them with the corresponding power to elect the board or exercise other fundamental voting rights. This article fills a conspicuous gap in the scholarly literature by providing empirical data regarding the governance of DCS firms beyond the presence of sunrise and sunset provisions. The summary data suggest that the governance of DCS firms is variable. A large proportion of DCS firms have no majority of the minority voting provisions and no independent chair. By contrast, almost half of the DCS firms have a sunset clause and a majority of independent directors. Finally, just under one-third of DCS firms have change of control provisions over and above existing law. On the basis of this evidence, this article argues against complete private ordering in favor of limited reforms to protect shareholders in DCS firms including: mandatory sunset provisions, disclosure relating to shareholder votes, and buyout protections that would address weaknesses inherent in DCS firms.

Suggested Citation:

Anand, Anita, Governance Issues in Dual Class Share Firms (May 14, 2018). Forthcoming in Annals of Corporate Governance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3178345 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3178345
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Second Class Investors: The use and abuse of subordinate shares in Canada
Shareholder Association for Research and Education Posted: 2004-04
R W Masulis , C Wang , F Xie
Agency Problems at Dual-class Companies' 64
Journal of Finance Posted: 1697
Crossref
M Harris , A Raviv
Corporate Governance: Voting Rights and Majority Rules' 20
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 0203
Wen
, volume 3
Load more
1 Citations
Brando Maria Cremona , Maria Lucia Passador
Shareholder Activism Today: Did Barbarians Storm the Gate?
UC Davis Business Law Journal, Vol. 20, Issue 2 (Spring 2020), 207-252 · 44 Pages · Posted: 14 Jul 2020 · Last revised: 23 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 367
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
320
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,184
RANK
215,929
1 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies