Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The 'Hidden' Tax Cost of Executive Compensation

70 Stanford Law Review Online 179 (2018)

13 Pages Posted: 25 May 2018 Last revised: 1 Jul 2018

Kobi Kastiel

Tel Aviv University - Buchmann Faculty of Law; Harvard Law School, Program on Corporate Governance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Noam Noked

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Faculty of Law

Date Written: May 1, 2018

Abstract

The sweeping tax reform enacted in December 2017 will significantly increase the tax cost of executive compensation in publicly held corporations where the compensation for each of the top five executives exceeds $1 million. Nonetheless, it is unlikely that these corporations will reduce the executive compensation to offset the increased tax cost, which will likely be shifted to public shareholders.

This Essay shows that this significant tax cost is not transparent to shareholders. Our analysis of a hand-collected dataset of relevant proxy statements that were filed in the first fifty days after the enactment of the tax reform reveals that companies do not provide their shareholders with sufficient information about the tax cost of executive compensation.

Therefore, there is a need for a prompt regulatory response. To make the tax cost of executive compensation fully transparent, this Essay proposes that the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) should adopt new disclosure requirements, outlined in this Essay, as soon as possible. The disclosure of the tax cost of executive compensation would significantly improve the accuracy of investor information regarding the overall cost of executive compensation, and it could enhance shareholders’ ability to scrutinize compensation practices, all while imposing minimal compliance costs upon firms.

Keywords: 162(m), executive compensation, tax reform, deduction, proxy statement

JEL Classification: K22, K34, M12

Suggested Citation:

Kastiel, Kobi and Noked, Noam, The 'Hidden' Tax Cost of Executive Compensation (May 1, 2018). 70 Stanford Law Review Online 179 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3179290
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
We did not include several companies that only had one executive that received slightly more than $1 million because the disallowed deduction may not be material for these companies. 29. The companies in this sample are the following
Fleetcor Technologies, Inc.; Franklin Resources, Inc.; TD Ameritrade Holding Corporation
Varian Medical Systems, Inc
Johnson Outdoors , Inc
The Walt Disney Company; Lee Enterprises, Inc.; Sanderson Farms, Inc.; Macom Technology Solutions Holdings, Inc.; Matthews International Corporation; National Holding Corporation
Inc Alico
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Tobias Bornemann , Martin Jacob , Mariana Sailer
Do Corporate Taxes Affect Executive Compensation?
WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2020-09 · 57 Pages · Posted: 5 May 2020 · Last revised: 11 Mar 2022 · Downloads: 1,425
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,795
RANK
375,436
1 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies