Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance, Earnings Quality and Idiosyncratic Crash Risk During the 2007-2008 Financial Crisis

50 Pages Posted: 30 May 2018

Paulo Pereira da Silva

Universidade de Évora - CEFAGE-UE

Date Written: May 18, 2018

Abstract

This study focuses on the cross-sectional determinants of idiosyncratic crash risk. In specific, we verify the role of financial disclosure quality and internal corporate governance mechanisms associated with the board of directors, executive compensation and audit committee as buffers of crash risk upsurge during financial turmoil. A sample of 1398 firms, mostly from developed countries, is analyzed covering two different periods: July 2005 to June 2007 (the pre-crisis period) and July 2007 to June 2009 (the crisis period). While our results reveal that accounting opacity before the crisis fueled crash risk during the crisis, we fail to find strong evidence of an association between pre-crisis internal corporate governance metrics and crash risk variation during the crisis. Crucially, our results also reject the hypothesis that internal corporate governance mechanisms alleviated earnings opacity or mediated the relationship between internal corporate governance mechanisms and crash risk variation. Finally, robustness tests indicate that these conclusions hold when controlling for selection bias in the definition of the utilized sample.

Keywords: Crash risk, trust, accounting opacity, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G38, G34, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Pereira da Silva, Paulo, Corporate Governance, Earnings Quality and Idiosyncratic Crash Risk During the 2007-2008 Financial Crisis (May 18, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3180750 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3180750
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,017
RANK
492,934
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies