Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digital Insiders and Informed Trading Before Earnings Announcements

63 Pages Posted: 30 May 2018 Last revised: 26 Mar 2021

Henk Berkman

University of Auckland Business School

Jonathan Jona

University of New Mexico - Robert O. Anderson Schools of Management

Gladys Lee

University of Melbourne

Naomi S. Soderstrom

University of Melbourne

Date Written: February 28, 2021

Abstract

While it is widely acknowledged that companies face increasing cybersecurity risk stemming from hackers stealing customer information, a relatively unknown cybersecurity risk is from information leakage and subsequent trading by digital insiders – hackers who target corporations to obtain non-public corporate information for illegal trading. We use a firm-specific measure of cybersecurity risk mitigation based on textual analysis of 10-Ks to proxy for the organization’s ability to reduce the probability of digital insider trading. We find that a larger share of new earnings information is incorporated into prices prior to earnings announcements for firms with low cybersecurity risk mitigation scores. We also find that pre-announcement trading by short sellers is more predictive of earnings surprises for firms with low cybersecurity risk mitigation. Further, on days closer to earnings announcements, firms with relatively low cybersecurity risk mitigation scores experience a larger increase in bid-ask spreads, particularly the adverse selection component. These results suggest that weak cybersecurity risk mitigation provides opportunities for acquisition of private information and that trading by privately informed traders is more likely in stocks of firms with higher exposure to cybercrimes.

Keywords: cost of liquidity, cybersecurity, cyber risk disclosure, hacker, adverse selection, bid ask spread, price impact, Amihud ratio, insider trading, probability of informed trading, private information, adverse selection

JEL Classification: G14, G18, K24, M48, M41

Suggested Citation:

Berkman, Henk and Jona, Jonathan and Lee, Gladys and Soderstrom, Naomi S., Digital Insiders and Informed Trading Before Earnings Announcements (February 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3180531 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3180531
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
414
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,298
RANK
162,079
2 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies