Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Life Cycle Research in Accounting, Finance and Corporate Governance: A Survey, and Directions for Future Research

54 Pages Posted: 30 May 2018 Last revised: 1 Nov 2018

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Mostafa Monzur Hasan

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance; Macquarie University

Date Written: August 20, 2018

Abstract

Corporate life cycle has received considerable interest in the accounting, finance and corporate governance literature. We synthesize this literature to inform readers about the valuable insights gained from these studies, and to outline knowledge gaps and future research directions. Although few in numbers, our review of the determinants of corporate life cycle suggests that managerial efficiencies, flexibility, and the resource-base of the firm drive transition through the corporate life cycle. Bulk of the reviewed papers examine the implications of firm life cycle studies which we categorize into three groups: (i) financial reporting and management accounting implications, (ii) financial policy implications, and (iii) corporate governance implications. Our review suggests that the corporate life cycle has considerable effects on firms' financial reporting and corporate disclosures; corporate investment, financing and dividends decisions; and corporate governance and socially responsible behavior. Despite a growing body of literature on corporate life cycle, we identify critical short-comings of past studies, and suggestions for future studies.

Keywords: Corporate life cycle; financial reporting; finance; corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Habib, Ahsan and Hasan, Mostafa Monzur, Corporate Life Cycle Research in Accounting, Finance and Corporate Governance: A Survey, and Directions for Future Research (August 20, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3180154 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3180154
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
143 References
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Brian J. Bushee
Abnormal Returns to a Fundamental Analysis Strategy
Pages: 40 Posted: 2 Dec 1996
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Adams , B Hermalin , M Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: a conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
I Adizes
Organizational passages-diagnosing and treating lifecycle problems of organizations
Organizational Dynamics , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 25 Posted: 1979
Crossref
R Agarwal , D B Audretsch
Does entry size matter? The impact of the life cycle and technology on firm survival
The Journal of Industrial Economics , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 43 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Andy Fodor , Kelley Bergsma Lovelace , Vijay Singal , Jitendra Tayal
Does Firm Life Cycle Stage Affect Investor Perceptions? Evidence from Earnings Announcement Reactions
Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming. · 62 Pages · Posted: 8 Sep 2020 · Last revised: 27 Jun 2025 · Downloads: 305
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
691
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,903
RANK
86,200
1 Citations
143 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies