Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants and Consequences of Financial Constraints: Review of the Empirical Literature

Posted: 31 May 2018

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Date Written: May 19, 2018

Abstract

We synthesize the empirical literature on the determinants and consequences of financial constraints in the discipline of accounting and finance, critique the findings, and offer suggestions for future research. A prolonged run of financial constraints could eventually lead to corporate failure, because a company’s financial performance is dependent on its accessibility to external finance. We categorize the determinants into: (i) firm-level fundamental determinants, (ii) macro-economic determinants, and (iii) firm-level corporate governance determinants. We review the consequences of financial distress, categorizing the consequences into (i) financial reporting and auditing consequences, (ii) firm-level operational consequences, and (iii) corporate governance consequences.

Keywords: Financial constraints, financial reporting, corporate governance, capital markets

Suggested Citation:

Habib, Ahsan, Determinants and Consequences of Financial Constraints: Review of the Empirical Literature (May 19, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3181687
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,170
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies