Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate Governance Index and Earnings Management on Firms’ Performance: A Comparative Study on the Islamic versus Conventional Financial Institutions in Pakistan

Ashfaq, S., Kayani, G. M., & Saeed, M. A. (2017). The Impact of Corporate Governance Index and Earnings Management on Firms’ Performance: A Comparative Study on the Islamic versus Conventional Financial Institutions in Pakistan. Journal of Islamic Business and Management, 7(1), 126-139

14 Pages Posted: 31 May 2018

Saira Ashfaq

Bahria University - Bahria University, Islamabad

Ghulam Mujtaba Kayani

Comsats University Islamabad

Muhammad Ali Saeed

Bahria University - Bahria University, Islamabad

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of corporate governance index and earnings management on firms’ performance and makes a comparative analysis of the selected Islamic and conventional financial institutions in Pakistan for the period of 2005-2015. Data of 20 KSE listed Islamic financial institutions (i.e., a few Islamic banks and mostly mud.¯arabah companies), and 35 KSE listed conventional financial institutions (i.e., conventional banks, mutual funds, insurance companies, and investment companies) have been used for analysis. The fixed effect model and random effect model have been used for analysis. The study finds that the corporate governance structure of conventional financial institutions is sound as compared to Islamic financial institutions. The study also concluded that the manipulation for earnings management is less in Islamic financial institutions as compared to conventional financial institutions in Pakistan. Therefore, it does not affect firm’s performance of Islamic financial institutions whereas the results of conventional financial institutions indicate that the manipulation of earnings management has an impact on their performance. Results of this study suggest that compliance with corporate governance practices is equally significant for both Islamic and conventional financial institutions.

Keywords: Corporate Governance Index, Earnings Management, Islamic Financial Institutions, Fixed Effect Model, Pakistan

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Ashfaq, Saira and Mujtaba Kayani, Ghulam and Saeed, Muhammad Ali, The Impact of Corporate Governance Index and Earnings Management on Firms’ Performance: A Comparative Study on the Islamic versus Conventional Financial Institutions in Pakistan (2017). Ashfaq, S., Kayani, G. M., & Saeed, M. A. (2017). The Impact of Corporate Governance Index and Earnings Management on Firms’ Performance: A Comparative Study on the Islamic versus Conventional Financial Institutions in Pakistan. Journal of Islamic Business and Management, 7(1), 126-139, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3181038
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
T Afza , H H Mirza
Do mature companies pay more dividends? Evidence from Pakistani stock market
Mediterranean Journal of Social Sciences , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 152 - 161 Posted: 2011
S Akhtar
Shar¯ ı'ah compliant corporate governance Posted: 2006
A T Agustini
The effect of firm size and rate of inflation on cost of capital: The role of IFRS adoption in the world
Procedia-Social and Behavioral Sciences , volume 219 , p. 47 - 54 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Ali Shah , S Z Butt , S A Hassan , A
Corporate governance and earnings management an empirical evidence form Pakistani listed companies
European Journal of Scientific Research , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 624 - 638 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,112
RANK
271,899
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies