Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Abnormal Audit Fees and Earnings Management Using Classification Shifting

Journal of Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 23 May 2018

Xudong (Daniel) Li

Monmouth University - Department of Accounting

Ying Guo

California State University, East Bay

Date Written: May 20, 2018

Abstract

Prior research has intensively debated whether abnormal audit fees purely indicate audit effort or client-auditor economic bonding (Francis 2011). However, this empirical debate is mostly based on the findings of the associations between audit fees and accrual-based earnings management. Unlike accrual-based earnings management, earnings management through classification shifting does not change the bottom-line numbers and thus involves lower litigation costs. Given the difference in litigation costs between the two forms of earnings management, the effect of abnormal audit fees on the incentives of auditor in dealing with the behavior of earnings management could be different. It is thus interesting to examine how audit fees affect auditors’ incentives on their clients’ earnings management with potential lower litigation risks.

Using data from years 2000-2010, we find a significant and positive cross-sectional association between the magnitude of abnormal audit fees and the level of classification shifting, a result supporting the notion that greater abnormal audit fees allow for more earnings management through classification shifting. This observed result further indicates that using abnormal audit fees to purely measure audit effort or economic bonding might be questionable as the effect of abnormal audit fees on opportunistic accounting practices could differ, depending on the specific form of earnings management activities associated with the level of potential litigation costs.

Keywords: Abnormal audit fees; Audit effort; Classification shifting; Earnings Management; Economic bonding; Knowledge transfer

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xudong (Daniel) and Guo, Ying, Abnormal Audit Fees and Earnings Management Using Classification Shifting (May 20, 2018). Journal of Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3182871
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
G V Krishnan , G Visvanathan
Is There an Association between Earnings Management and Auditor-Provided Tax Services?
Journal of American Taxation Association , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 135 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Libby , M Nelson , J Hunton
Recognition v. Disclosure, Auditor Tolerance for Misstatement, and the Reliability of Stock-Compensation and Lease Information
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 3 , p. 533 - 560 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Lipe
The information contained in the components of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , p. 37 - 64 Posted: 1986
Crossref
G Lobo , J Zhou
Did Conservatism in Financial Reporting Increase after the Sarbanes-Oxley Act? Initial Evidence
Accounting Horizons , volume 20 , p. 57 - 74 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
368
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,275
RANK
185,725
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies