Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Governance and Finance of Norwegian Family Firms: Main Characteristics of the Population

121 Pages Posted: 25 May 2018 Last revised: 8 Jun 2018

Janis Berzins

BI Norwegian Business School

Øyvind Bøhren

BI Norwegian Business School

Bogdan Stacescu

BI Norwegian Business School

Date Written: June 7, 2018

Abstract

Little is known about the family firm as an economic entity except for the very few family firms that are public. Our paper describes a wide range of governance and finance characteristics in the population of all private and public family firms with limited liability. We find that the family firm is the dominating organizational form in the economy, and that family firms behave and perform differently than other firms.

We use proprietary data from Norway in 2000–2015 to describe main characteristics of family firms, which we define as firms where more than half the equity is owned by individuals related by blood or marriage. A firm is either an individual entity or a business group. Analyzing about 86,000 firms per year, we find that family firms account for 66% of all firms in the economy, 33% of employment, 22% of sales, and 13% of the assets.

We find that family firms have very concentrated ownership regardless of firm size, and that most firms have owners from the controlling family, only. The family’s dominance at the shareholder meeting carries over to the CEO and to the board, which is unusually small.

The distribution of firm size is lognormal, growth is independent of size, and family firms are smaller and grow less than nonfamily firms do. Family firms are more labor intensive, and small family firms are particularly liquid, risky, and young. The financing and dividend policy is quite similar in family firms and nonfamily firms.

We find a performance premium for family firms. This premium exists for family firms vs. nonfamily firms as a whole, across firms with different size, across firms with and without minority owners, and across most industries.

Keywords: Corporate governance, corporate finance, family firms, majority control, performance, return on assets

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Berzins, Janis and Bøhren, Øyvind and Stacescu, Bogdan, The Governance and Finance of Norwegian Family Firms: Main Characteristics of the Population (June 7, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3182411 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3182411
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Admati , P Pfeiderer , J Zechner
Large shareholder activism, risk-sharing, and financial market equilibrium
Journal of Political Economy , volume 102 , p. 1097 - 1130 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Franklin Allen , Elena Carletti , Robert S. Marquez
Stakeholder Capitalism, Corporate Governance and Firm Value
EFA 2007 Ljubljana Meetings Paper, European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 190/2007, Wharton Financial Institutions Center Working Paper #09-28 Pages: 45 Posted: 5 Mar 2007 Last revised: 6 Dec 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
H Almeida , D Wolfenzon
Should business groups be dismantled? The equilibrium costs of efficient internal capital markets
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 79 , p. 99 - 144 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
450
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,813
RANK
147,101
3 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies