Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Exchange Listing on Corporate Governance: Evidence from Direct Listings

63 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2018 Last revised: 6 Oct 2022

Dan W. French

Lamar University; University of Missouri at Columbia

Andrew E. Kern

University of Missouri - Trulaske College of Business

Thibaut G. Morillon

Elon University

Adam S. Yore

University of Missouri at Columbia - Department of Finance

Date Written: October 5, 2022

Abstract

We use prior direct listings by public non-listed REITs (PNLRs) to explore the impact of exchange membership on corporate governance. We study companies with public, but non-listed shares in a unique setting where the influence of listing is distinct from the confounding effect of capital raising. Evidence suggests younger, more profitable companies with stronger governance and professional management are more likely to directly list. Institutional ownership increases after listing and these changes are not due to future capital raising. Moreover, internal corporate governance improves beyond the exchange’s requirements, especially for those companies with greater stock liquidity and more institutional ownership.

Keywords: direct listing, exchange listing, corporate governance, bonding hypothesis, REIT, PNLR, IPO

JEL Classification: G23, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

French, Dan W. and Kern, Andrew E. and Morillon, Thibaut and Yore, Adam S., The Impact of Exchange Listing on Corporate Governance: Evidence from Direct Listings (October 5, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3185065 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3185065
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
Reena Aggarwal , Isil Erel , Miguel Ferreira , Pedro Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
George Akerlof
The market for lemons
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Raphael Amit , Belen Villalonga
How do family ownership, and management affect firm value?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 385 - 417 Posted: 2006
Yakov Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
391
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,214
RANK
172,978
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies