Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Corruption and Mergers and Acquisitions

54 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2018 Last revised: 23 Sep 2019

Nam Nguyen

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley

Hieu V. Phan

University of Massachusetts Lowell - The Robert J. Manning School of Business

Thuy Simpson

Grand Valley State University

Date Written: September 21, 2019

Abstract

This research examines the relation between political corruption and mergers and acquisitions (M&As). We find that local corruption increases firm acquisitiveness but decreases firm targetiveness. The levels of corruption in acquirer areas relate positively to the bid premiums and negatively to the likelihood of deal completion. Corruption motivates acquiring firms to use excess cash for payment, which mitigates the negative effect of corruption on acquirer shareholder value. The evidence indicates that acquisitions help acquiring firms convert cash into hard-to-extract assets and relocate assets from the high to low corruption areas, thereby shielding their liquid assets from expropriation by local officials.

Keywords: Political Corruption, Mergers and Acquisitions, Liquid Assets Shielding

JEL Classification: G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Nam and Phan, Hieu V. and Simpson, Thuy, Political Corruption and Mergers and Acquisitions (September 21, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3185775 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3185775
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
323
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,898
RANK
213,801
19 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies