Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Simple Best Practice Guide for Making Governance and Risk Management Disclosures by Governing Boards and Senior Managers

Ntim, C.G. (2018). ‘A Simple Best Practice Guide for Making Risk Management Disclosures by Governing Boards and Senior Managers’, Leadership Foundation for Higher Education, London, England, UK

25 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2018

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Date Written: February 2017

Abstract

A central objective of the project, therefore, was to identify, develop and disseminate ‘best risk management and governance disclosure practice guide’ to be used not only within the UK HE sector, but also governors, councillors, senior managers and trustees of all types (e.g., private, public, sciences, humanities, religious, liberal, new, old, large and small) HEIs around the world. It is within this context that this simple and easy to use best practice guide or toolkit for making governance and risk management disclosures in HEIs has been prepared from the larger project report prepared for the LFHE entitled: “Governance and Risk Disclosure Practices in UK Higher Education Institutions in an Era of Austerity and Reform”. Both the governance and risk management framework presented were developed based on extensive review of best practice risk management and governance documents, related prior studies and actual or current practices of 117 UK HEIs over a six year period (i.e., 2009 to 2014 inclusive). Specifically, the study sought to: (i) develop and investigate the level of compliance with, and disclosure of, good recommendations contained in the HE risk management guidance documents relating to best risk management practices in UK HEIs; and (ii) develop and investigate the level of compliance with, and disclosure of, good recommendations contained in the HE good governance codes (guidance documents) relating to best governance practices in UK HEIs.

Content analysis method was employed in collecting and analysing two main types of data from HEIs’ annual/audit committee reports. First, a comprehensive best practice risk management and disclosure guide, containing 127 risk items with three main sub-sections, consisting of: (i) financial; (ii) operational; and (iii) strategic risks; was developed after extensive review of the current practices, existing good practice guides, and related literature on risk management and disclosure. Second, a comprehensive good governance disclosure guide containing 100 governance items with five sub-sections, consisting of: (i) governing boards; (ii) processes and structures; (iii) performance, evaluation, remuneration and reward; (iv) auditing, accounting and accountability; and (v) dialogue with stakeholders and social responsibility, was developed after extensive review of existing good governance codes of best practice and literature.

Meanwhile some caveats with respect to its objective and use in practice are important. Most importantly, the governance and risk items they contain are not meant to be prescriptive, but suggestive, un-exhaustive, and flexible, which can be added to or taken from in order to suit specific individual HEIs’ needs. It is also expected to be adaptable from country to country, and time to time in order to suit specific country/HEI or time specific needs and challenges. Thus, its overall objective is to provide a simple best practice framework that may not only be able to help generate new insights and ideas, but also within which governance and risk management discussions and debates can take place among and within governing boards, governors, councils, councillors, senior managers and trustees of all types of HEIs around the world.

Keywords: Governance, Risk Management, Higher Education Institutions, UK

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Ntim, Collins G., A Simple Best Practice Guide for Making Governance and Risk Management Disclosures by Governing Boards and Senior Managers (February 2017). Ntim, C.G. (2018). ‘A Simple Best Practice Guide for Making Risk Management Disclosures by Governing Boards and Senior Managers’, Leadership Foundation for Higher Education, London, England, UK, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3186626
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
H A Abdou , W M Abdallah , J Mulkeen , C G Ntim , Y Wang
Prediction of financial strength ratings using machine learning and conventional techniques
Investment Management and Financial Innovation , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 194 - 211 Posted: 2017
Abdul Wahab , N S Ntim , C G Adnan , M M M Ling , T W
Book-tax, governance changes, and top management team heterogeneity
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation Posted: 2018
S Abraham , P Cox
Analysing the determinants of narrative risk information in UK FTSE 100 annual reports
British Accounting Review , volume 39 , p. 227 - 248 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A S Ahmed , A Beatty , B Bettinghaus
Evidence on the efficacy of interest-rate risk disclosures by commercial banks
International Journal of Accounting , volume 39 , p. 223 - 251 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,461
RANK
490,025
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies