Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors That Influence the Use of the Internal Audit Function by Executive Management and Audit Committee

24 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2018

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Joleen Kremin

Portland State University

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 29, 2018

Abstract

The internal audit function (IAF) is an important component of high quality corporate governance. We study how two important groups in the corporate governance mosaic—the executive management team and the audit committee—rely on IAF's work. It is not obvious if the IAF satisfies the needs of both groups. Especially if multiple factors influence IAF's work, Chief Audit Executives (CAEs) may find themselves in a "Serving Two Masters"-situation which could compromise quality for all stakeholders. Based on a unique dataset from CAEs, two logistic regression models identify factors that influence the degree IAF's results are used by both the executive management and the audit committee. The results show the existence of various factors, which are relevant for either both (e.g. strategic project reports and IAF quality), or only one of the respective players (e.g., audit committees are interested in risk management reports while executive management teams are interested in internal control reports), depending on whether the IAF focuses on assurance or consulting.

Keywords: Internal Audit, Internal Audit Function, Corporate Governance, Audit Committee, Serving Two Masters

JEL Classification: M40, M42, G34, G32, M4, G3

Suggested Citation:

Eulerich, Marc and Kremin, Joleen and Wood, David A., Factors That Influence the Use of the Internal Audit Function by Executive Management and Audit Committee (May 29, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3186552 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3186552
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Serving two masters: The association between audit committee internal audit oversight and internal audit activities. Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2010
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit assistance and external audit timeliness
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A R Abdel-Khalik , D Snowball , J H Wragge
The effects of certain internal audit variables on the planning of external audit programs
Accounting Review , p. 215 - 227 Posted: 1983
E Almer , N Cannon , J Kremin
Title Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,874
RANK
274,044
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies