Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Restatements Affect Outside Directors and Boards? A Review of the Literature

Journal of Accounting Literature, Forthcoming

61 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2018 Last revised: 11 Jul 2019

Daniel Street

Bucknell University

Dana R. Hermanson

Kennesaw State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 29, 2019

Abstract

This paper reviews academic literature related to the consequences that outside directors and boards may face in the wake of earnings restatements and suggests directions for future research. We examine loss of board seats; recruitment of new directors; proxy recommendations and shareholder support; pre-emptive director departures; director wealth effects; director reputation, litigation, and sanction risks; international evidence; and legal proposals for reform. The overall picture that emerges from the literature is that directors’ primary risk in the wake of earnings restatements is loss of board seats, in part through adverse proxy advisor recommendations and reduced shareholder support. Directors typically face little risk of legal liability or SEC sanctions, and some directors pre-emptively leave a problem company’s board and reduce their loss of interlocked board seats. Some legal scholars have called for director liability to be increased so as to promote more vigilant board oversight. Companies often focus on increasing the independence of the board in the wake of a restatement in an effort to repair organizational reputation. While researchers have revealed a host of important findings to date, much more can be learned about the effects of restatements on outside directors and boards.

Keywords: Restatement, board of directors, independent director, outside director, proxy advisor, shareholders

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Street, Daniel and Hermanson, Dana R., How Do Restatements Affect Outside Directors and Boards? A Review of the Literature (May 29, 2019). Journal of Accounting Literature, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3186666 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3186666
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
A Agrawal , J F Jaffe , J M Karpoff
Management turnover and governance changes following the revelation of fraud penalties: Public and private
Journal of Law & Economics , volume 42 , p. 309 - 342 Posted: 1999
Crossref
E D Almer , A A Gramling , S E Kaplan
Impact of post-restatement actions taken by a firm on non-professional investors' credibility perceptions
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 80 , p. 61 - 76 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Y Alperovych , R Calcagno , P Geiler
Corporate governance and fraud: Causes and consequences
Research handbook of finance and sustainability , p. 513 - 531 Posted: 2018
Crossref
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: A multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Alina Lerman , Steven Utke , Jingyu Xu
Sins of the Father: The Effect of Parent Firms’ Accounting Misconduct on Current and Former Subsidiaries
Posted: 30 Jan 2020 · Last revised: 30 Aug 2023 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mohammed A. Alhossini , Collins G. Ntim , Alaa Zalata
Corporate Board Committees and Corporate Outcomes: An International Systematic Literature Review and Agenda for Future Research
International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming · 91 Pages · Posted: 24 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 518
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Artyom Durnev , Claudine Mangen
The Spillover Effects of Restatement Tone for Industry Investment
68 Pages · Posted: 20 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 185
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,981
RANK
266,546
3 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies