Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance and Risk Disclosure Practices in UK Higher Education Institutions in an Era of Austerity and Reform

Ntim, C.G. (2018). ‘Governance and Risk Disclosure Practices in UK Higher Education Institutions in an Era of Austerity and Reform’, Leadership Foundation for Higher Education, London, England, UK.

61 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2018

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Date Written: May 29, 2018

Abstract

Globally, the higher education sector is experiencing rapid changes, including increasing competition, ‘commercialisation’, ‘managerialism’ and regulation. These changes have brought to the fore issues of sound governance and risk management in HEIs. However, there is a clear dearth of a serious systematic and longitudinal research examining the extent to which senior managers of UK HEIs engage with, and disclose, existing good practice recommendations relating to risk management and governance in their annual reports.

The current project, therefore, examined risk management and governance disclosure practices in UK HEIs in a period of increased budget cuts and reforms. Specifically, three main sub-objectives emerged as follows, to:

(i) develop and investigate the level of compliance with, and disclosure of, good recommendations contained in the HE risk management guidance codes relating to best risk management practices in UK HEIs.

(ii) develop and investigate the level of compliance with, and disclosure of, good recommendations contained in the HE good governance codes relating to best governance practices in UK HEIs.

(iii) explore other governance and financial characteristics of UK HEIs.

The content analysis method was employed in collecting and analysing governance, risk and financial data from HEIs' annual/audit committee reports for sample of 117 (71%) UK HEIs over the 2009-2014 period. The main findings are as follows:

(i) The level of transparency and disclosures relating to ‘risk management’ practices by UK HEIs are relatively low (e.g., compared with similar sized for-profit organisations), but the distribution varies widely, ranging from a minimum of 6.96% to a maximum of 31.76% with an average of 17.31%.

(ii) Of the three main types of risk items examined, disclosures relating to ‘financial risk’ were highest, compared with ‘operational’ and ‘strategic risk’ disclosures.

(iii) The level of transparency and disclosures relating to ‘governance’ practices by UK HEIs were relatively low (e.g., compared with similar sized for-profit organisations), with the distribution equally varying widely, ranging from a minimum of 8.00% to a maximum of 75.00% with an average of 40.02%.

(iv) Of the five main types of governance mechanisms investigated, disclosures relating to ‘governors and governing boards’ were the highest, whilst those relating to ‘performance, evaluation, remuneration and rewards’ were the lowest.

(v) A steady increasing pattern can be observed with respect to both governance and risk disclosures that were examined over-time. However, and on average, disclosures relating to governance mechanisms were higher than those relating to risk management practices.

(vi) On comparison, the findings suggest that, on average, Pre-1992 UK HEIs made more good risk disclosures compared with their Post-1992 counterparts.

(vii) There is a discernible evidence of improving quality of governance, such as governing board independence, although others, such as governing board gender (ethnic) diversity representation, are observably low.

(viii) There are positive financial developments, such as increases in endowment funds and teaching/research income, but worrying evidence of increases in others like debt and pension costs.

On the basis of the above findings, the following summary recommendations are offered for the identified stakeholders. Recommendation 1: Given the low levels of disclosures relating to best risk management and governance practices contained in the recommended codes, stronger monitoring and enforcement by regulatory bodies, such as HEFCE (OFS), its devolved counterparts (DFE/HEFCW/SFC) and sector-wide governance bodies, such as the CUC will be a step in the right direction.

Recommendation 2: The CUC acting in collaboration with other governance and regulatory bodies, such as the DFE, HEFCE (OFS), HEFCW, SFC and LFHE, to develop a simple and user-friendly sector wide best practice disclosure guidance relating to risk management and governance in UK HEIs.

Recommendation 3: A document outlining the level of compliance with, and disclosure of, best risk management and governance practices to an HEI’s various stakeholders and general public to be included in the annual institutional accountability returns to the DFE, HEFCE/OFS, HEFCW, and SFC.

Recommendation 4: Given the relatively low representation of women, and especially Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) groups on governing boards, HEIs to make conscious and explicit effort to recruit experienced and qualified members from that group of society.

Recommendation 5: Given the worrying signs of increasing levels of financial stress, especially relating to debt and pension costs, sector-wide financial and regulatory bodies, such as DFE, HEFCE (OFS), HEFCW, SFC and BUFDG to commission an in-depth study specifically focusing on assessing the extent of financial stress and risk with a view to recommending proactive and best practice solutions.

Keywords: Governance, Risk management, Higher Education Insitutions, UK

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Ntim, Collins G., Governance and Risk Disclosure Practices in UK Higher Education Institutions in an Era of Austerity and Reform (May 29, 2018). Ntim, C.G. (2018). ‘Governance and Risk Disclosure Practices in UK Higher Education Institutions in an Era of Austerity and Reform’, Leadership Foundation for Higher Education, London, England, UK., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3186621
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
M H Elmagrhi , C G Ntim , J Malagila , S Fosu , A A Tunyi
Trustee diversity, governance mechanisms, capital structure and performance in top UK charities. Corporate Governance Posted: 2018
Crossref
M H Elmagrhi , C G Ntim , R Crossley , J Malagila , S Fosu , T Vu
Corporate governance and dividend policy in UK listed SMEs: The effect of board characteristics
International Journal of Accounting and Information Management , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 459 - 483 Posted: 2017
E Elkhashen , C G Ntim
Accounting and philosophy: The construction of social reality framework
Journal of Accounting and Taxation , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 29 - 36 Posted: 2018
S Fosu , C G Ntim , W Coffie , V Murinde
Bank opacity and risk-taking: Evidence from analysts' forecasts
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 33 , p. 81 - 95 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,502
RANK
422,747
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies