Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between Earning Management and Cost of Equity

Posted: 16 Jun 2018

Payam Mojtahedi

Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 3, 2013

Abstract

The accounting scientific literature pays much attention focusing on the incentives of the use of earnings management. The purpose of this study is to explore the relationship between Earning management and cost of equity capital in 150 Malaysian firms over the period 2000-2011. The main objective of this research is that whether or not firms manage earnings to profit from a lower cost of capital. The library method is used for gathering information and the method of multiple regressions has been used to predict this relation. To determine cost of equity growth (Gordon) model has been used, and adjusted model of Jones has been used to determine of earning management. Debt to equity ratio, firm size and return on equity were used as control variable. In general, findings from the empirical analysis indicate that the relationships between cost of equity and earning management was inverse but weak, and all control variable have significant relation with cost of equity except return on equity.

Keywords: Earning managements, cost of equity, accruals, debt to equity ratio

JEL Classification: M

Suggested Citation:

Mojtahedi, Payam, The Relationship between Earning Management and Cost of Equity (April 3, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3187629
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,091
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies