Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Employment Protection and Share Repurchases: Evidence from Wrongful Discharge Laws

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

88 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2018 Last revised: 6 Jul 2021

Viet Anh Dang

Alliance Manchester Business School

Amedeo De Cesari

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School - Finance & Accounting Group

Hieu V. Phan

University of Massachusetts Lowell - The Robert J. Manning School of Business

Date Written: June 3, 2021

Abstract

We use the staggered adoption of Wrongful Discharge Laws (WDLs) by U.S. state courts as a quasi-natural experiment to examine the causal impact of firing costs and employment protection on corporate payouts. We find that the greater employment protection imposed by WDLs leads to higher share repurchases, and that this finding is more pronounced among firms with greater financial resources and better governance. Our results support the argument that as higher firing costs enhance employee entrenchment and encourage rent extraction behavior, firms have an incentive to increase share buybacks to mitigate a wealth transfer from shareholders to employees.

Keywords: Employment Protection, Share Repurchases, Corporate Payout, Labor Laws

JEL Classification: G35, G32, J63, K31

Suggested Citation:

Dang, Viet Anh and De Cesari, Amedeo and Phan, Hieu V., Employment Protection and Share Repurchases: Evidence from Wrongful Discharge Laws (June 3, 2021). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3188011 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3188011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
G Grullon , R Michaely
Dividends, share repurchases, and the substitution hypothesis
J. Finance , volume 57 , p. 1649 - 1684 Posted: 2002
Crossref
C Hadlock , J Pierce
New evidence on measuring financial constraints: Moving beyond the KZ index
Rev. Financial Stud , volume 23 , p. 1909 - 1940 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Jaehoon Hahn , Sandy Klasa , Hyuksoon Lim , Katie Moon
Temporary Workers and Corporate Liquidity Management Decisions
Pages: 67 Posted: 1 Oct 2020 Last revised: 27 Jul 2025
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
I-M Haw , Ssm Ho , B Hu , X Zhang
The contribution of stock repurchases to the value of the firm and cash holdings around the world
J. Corporate Finance , volume 17 , p. 152 - 166 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
334
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,931
RANK
206,108
17 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies