Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Déjà Vu: The Effect of Executives and Directors With Prior Banking Crisis Experience on Bank Outcomes Around the Global Financial Crisis

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 36 (2), pp. 658-998, Summer 2019

Mays Business School Research Paper No. #3188236

58 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2018 Last revised: 20 Jun 2019

Anwer S. Ahmed

Texas A&M University - Mays Business School

Brant E. Christensen

Brigham Young University

Adam J. Olson

University of Cincinnati - Department of Accounting

Christopher G. Yust

Texas A&M University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 1, 2018

Abstract

We investigate the effect of executives and directors with prior banking crisis experience on bank outcomes around the global financial crisis (GFC). Executives and directors with previous experience leading banks through a bank crisis may have been uniquely able to understand the risks, recognize the warnings signs early, and thus more effectively respond to the GFC. Controlling for other executive, director, and bank-level characteristics, we examine whether bank performance, risk taking, and accounting quality in the period immediately before and during the GFC are affected by having executives or directors who previously served as bank executives or directors during the 1980s/1990s banking crisis (80s/90s crisis). Overall, we find that banks led by these crisis-experienced executives and directors exhibit stronger performance, lower risk taking, and higher accounting quality in the period around the GFC. These effects are strongest among bank leaders for whom the 80s/90s crisis was most salient. Results are robust to propensity matched samples and other analyses performed to rule out alternative explanations. Our results suggest these individuals were able to learn from prior crisis experience.

Keywords: Governance, Banking, Learning, Financial Crisis, Bank Performance, Bank Risk-Taking, Bank Financial Reporting Quality

JEL Classification: G01, G20, G21, G32, M41, M48, N22

Suggested Citation:

Ahmed, Anwer S. and Christensen, Brant E. and Olson, Adam J. and Yust, Christopher, Déjà Vu: The Effect of Executives and Directors With Prior Banking Crisis Experience on Bank Outcomes Around the Global Financial Crisis (June 1, 2018). Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 36 (2), pp. 658-998, Summer 2019, Mays Business School Research Paper No. #3188236, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3188236 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3188236
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,456
RANK
502,079
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies