Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of External Whistleblower Rewards on Internal Reporting

Harvard John M. Olin Fellow’s Discussion Paper Series No. 76

39 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2018 Last revised: 25 Jun 2018

Masaki Iwasaki

Seoul National University

Date Written: May 26, 2018

Abstract

Many have argued that rewards for external whistleblowing on corporate crimes to regulatory agencies could discourage internal reporting in companies, but this issue has not yet been fully analyzed. Based on the observations of past trends in whistleblower cases, this paper develops a model based on the hypotheses that internal reporting helps a company’s internal governance system prevent crime through the exercise of internal control and that external whistleblowing helps a regulatory agency deter crime through the threat of sanctions. The model shows the amount of external whistleblower rewards has a non-monotonic relationship with the probability of internal reporting occurring: As the amount of rewards increases, the probability of internal reporting first increases and, after reaching a maximum, decreases to zero. The socially optimal amount of external whistleblower rewards is determined by considering a trade-off between internal reporting as a means of prevention and external whistleblowing as that of deterrence.

Keywords: Whistleblowing, whistleblower rewards, internal reporting, corporate crimes

JEL Classification: G38, K42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Iwasaki, Masaki, Effects of External Whistleblower Rewards on Internal Reporting (May 26, 2018). Harvard John M. Olin Fellow’s Discussion Paper Series No. 76, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3188465 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3188465
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
334
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,590
RANK
206,108
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies