Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Big Thumb on the Scale: An Overview of the Proxy Advisory Industry

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Closer Look Series: Topics, Issues and Controversies in Corporate Governance No. CGRP-72

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 18-27

12 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2018

James Copland

Manhattan Institute

David F. Larcker

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Stanford University - Hoover Institution; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Brian Tayan

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Date Written: May 31, 2018

Abstract

Proxy advisory firms have significant influence over the voting decisions of institutional investors and the governance choices of publicly traded companies. However, it is not clear that the recommendations of these firms are correct and generally lead to better outcomes for companies and their shareholders. This Closer Look provides a comprehensive review of the proxy advisory industry and the influence of these firms on voting behavior, corporate choices, and outcomes, and it outlines potential reforms for the industry.

We ask:

• How accurate are the voting recommendations of proxy advisory firms? • How influential are they over voting practices and corporate choices? • Should steps be taken to reduce their influence or improve the reliability of their recommendations? • Would greater transparency, back-testing, and regulation improve the market for their services?

Note: The Stanford Closer Look series is a collection of short case studies through which we explore topics, issues, and controversies in corporate governance and executive leadership. In each study, we take a targeted look at a specific issue that is relevant to the current debate on governance and explain why it is so important. Larcker and Tayan are co-authors of the books Corporate Governance Matters and A Real Look at Real World Corporate Governance.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Institutional Shareholder Services, ISS, Glass Lewis, institutional investors, shareholder voting, shareholder activism, shareholder pressure, proxy advisory services, proxy firms, proxy voting, governance quality, compensation design, compensation choices, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G28, K22

Suggested Citation:

Copland, James and Larcker, David F. and Tayan, Brian, The Big Thumb on the Scale: An Overview of the Proxy Advisory Industry (May 31, 2018). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Closer Look Series: Topics, Issues and Controversies in Corporate Governance No. CGRP-72, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 18-27, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3188174
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
voting rights (i.e., dual-class or multiple-class shares)
David Yermack
Shareholder Voting and Corporate Governance
Annual Review of Financial Economics Posted: 2010
Crossref
Paul E. Fischer , Paul E. Fischer , Jeffrey Gramlich , Brian P. Miller , Hal D. White
Investor Perceptions of Board Performance: Evidence from Uncontested Director Elections
Pages: 42 Posted: 2 Mar 2008 Last revised: 13 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Kenneth , Randall S Martin , Thomas
When Is Enough, Enough? Market Reaction to Highly Dilutive Stock Option Plans and the Subsequent Impact on CEO Compensation
Journal of Corporate Finance Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,957
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,469
RANK
19,266
8 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies