Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial and Controlling Ownership, Profitability, Firm Size and Financial Leverage in Nigeria

International Journal of Business and Management Review, Vol.4, No.9, pp.43-57, November 2016

15 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2018

Uche T. Agburuga

Federal University Otuoke; Federal College of Education Technical Omoku

Emmauel Ibanichuka

University of Port Harcourt

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

An ordinary least squares regression test of sample of firms in manufacturing and services industries sorted into overall, low and high managerial and controlling interests (MCOWN), shows financial leverage (FL) as an increasing (decreasing) function of MCOWN, for firms with low (high) MCOWN and service (manufacturing) industry, and negatively (positively) related to profitability and size for firms with high (low) MCOWN. Result suggests increasing (decreasing) use of debt capital when MCOWN is low (high) and that the higher (lower) the MCOWN, the greater (lesser) the agency cost contradicting the notion that FL is a governance mechanism that mitigates agency problem.

Keywords: return on equity, return on assets, free cash flow theory, managerial and controlling interest hypothesis, convergence of interest hypothesis, entrenchment of interest hypothesis

JEL Classification: D22, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Agburuga, Uche Toby and Ibanichuka, Emmanuel, Managerial and Controlling Ownership, Profitability, Firm Size and Financial Leverage in Nigeria (2016). International Journal of Business and Management Review, Vol.4, No.9, pp.43-57, November 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3189629
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,206
RANK
880,636
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies