Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax and Corporate Social Responsibility of Firms in Nigeria

Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, ISSN 2222-1697 (Paper) ISSN 2222-2847 (Online), Vol.9, No.10, 2018

18 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2018

Asian Umobong

University of Port Harcourt - Department of Accounting

Uche T. Agburuga

Federal University Otuoke; Federal College of Education Technical Omoku

Date Written: May 31, 2018

Abstract

This study examined whether corporate tax (CT) is a substitute of and mutually exclusive to corporate social responsibility (CSR), or a complement thereof, using secondary data obtained from firms listed on the Nigeria Stock Exchange. It also sought to determine the nature of CSR practiced in Nigeria. Result confirmed that CT is positively and complementarily related to CSR of firms that practice environmental remediation, and is negatively related to, mutually exclusive and a substitute to CSR of firms that embark on poverty alleviation and enhancement of educational development. This later inverse relationship imply that such firms have the potential to indulge in aggressive tax planning behaviors. Also, firms that practice poverty alleviation as a form of CSR activity are more dominant in Nigeria with the mean of such firms higher than that of firms practicing environmental remediation. Interestingly, the size of firms are positively and significantly related to CSR for firms practicing environmental remediation implying the larger the size the more investment in CSR activities.Also, size is negatively and not significantly related to CSR for firms practicing poverty alleviation CSR activities implying that size does not influence such firms’ decision on whether to invest on CSR and avoid tax or whether to pay tax and mitigate investment in CSR. Based on these findings we recommend government should encourage firms practicing CSR as a complement to CT through awards and recognition, discourage aggressive tax planning behavior of mutually exclusive firms by setting up controls and monitoring mechanisms to ensure fair reporting in addition to provision of tax incentives for CSR investments to discourage tax avoidance.

Keywords: Taxation, Complements, Substitutes, Poverty Alleviation, Environmental Remediation, Environmental Accounting

JEL Classification: D22, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Umobong, Asian and Agburuga, Uche Toby, Corporate Tax and Corporate Social Responsibility of Firms in Nigeria (May 31, 2018). Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, ISSN 2222-1697 (Paper) ISSN 2222-2847 (Online), Vol.9, No.10, 2018 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3189628
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Kenneth Amaeshi , Bongo C. Adi , Chris Ogbechie , Olufemi O. Amao
Corporate Social Responsibility in Nigeria: Western Mimicry or Indigenous Influences?
Pages: 21 Posted: 18 Apr 2006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R S Aviyonah
Corporate social responsibility and strategic tax behavior , p. 183 - 198 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S L Berman , Wicks , Ac , S Kotha , T M Jones
Does stake-holder orientation matter? The relationship between stakeholder management models and firm financial performance
The Academy of Management Journal , volume 42 , p. 488 - 506 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A B Carroll
A three-dimensional conceptual model of corporate social performance , volume 4 , p. 497 - 505 Posted: 1979
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
297
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,789
RANK
234,143
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies