Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate Governance Code on Earnings Management in Listed Non-Financial Firms: Evidence From Kenya

Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies, 7(4), pp. 428-444, 2017

Posted: 18 Jun 2018 Last revised: 16 Jul 2018

Erick Rading Outa

Charles Darwin University

Paul Eisenberg

University of Derby; University of Portsmouth

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to examine whether voluntary corporate governance (CG) code issued in 2002 constrain earnings management (EM) among listed non-finance companies in Kenya.

Design/methodology/approach – Using a panel data of 338-firm year’s observations between 2005 and 2014, the authors test the hypothesis that CG constrains EM in non-finance firms listed in Kenya. The authors regress discretionary accruals (DA) against a developed Corporate Governance Index (CGI).

Findings – The overall results show that DA is not significantly related to CG suggesting the voluntary CG code does not deter EM in non-finance companies in Kenya.

Practical implications – Evidence of income decreasing/increasing accruals implies EM still exists among the listed firms. This suggests that policymakers may need to consider radical actions including alternative or new CG approaches and new institutions to improve the effectiveness of CG.

Originality/value – This study extends existing studies by including composite CG as possible explanatory variable for constraining EM. The authors contribute to the debate by demonstrating that the voluntary CG code in Kenya is not effective in constraining DA and therefore the current initiatives by the regulator to change the current CG code are appropriately directed.

Keywords: Discretionary Accruals, Corporate Governance, Kenya, Earnings Management

JEL Classification: M40, M41, O16, O55

Suggested Citation:

Outa, Erick Rading and Eisenberg, Paul and Ozili, Peterson K, The Impact of Corporate Governance Code on Earnings Management in Listed Non-Financial Firms: Evidence From Kenya (2017). Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies, 7(4), pp. 428-444, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3189474
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
715
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies