Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who, Republican or Democrat CEOs, Laughs Last? Political Cycles in the Market for Corporate Directors

53 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2018

Changmin Lee

Hanyang University - School of Business

Jihong Jeon

Hanyang University - School of Business

Woonam Seok

Korea Corporate Governance Service

Date Written: June 1, 2018

Abstract

In this paper, we explore the relationship between CEO’s political preference and post-retirement directorship holding by individual CEOs. We test a hypothesis that CEO’s political preference might be a signal for (potential) political network in the professional labor market. We use a data set on the political donations of CEOs to major political parties from 2003-2014 in the U.S. Firstly, we provide direct evidences that one of main candidates in the market for corporate directors is a retired CEO. The proportion of retired CEO outside directors for all outside directors in the S&P 500 firms is 20.62%. Second, our empirical evidence suggests that the political donations of CEOs are more likely to reveal a preference, not strategic behavior. 71.3% of CEOs do not change the pattern of donation according to the ruling party. 75.0% of CEOs do not change donation behavior before vs. after CEO retirement, either. Third, the success in the market for corporate director depends on the ruling party. Republican partisan CEOs hold larger outside directorships than Democratic partisan CEOs only under a Republican regime. These regressions results are robust for controlling the endogeneity problem. We use the presidential election result at a state where a headquarter of CEO firm is located as the instrumental variable. Fourthly, Democratic CEOs have more variations on outside directorships across political regimes. Democratic CEOs hold 0.72 directorships two years after retirement and 0.71 directorships three years after retirement under a Democratic regime, which are statistically larger than 0.35 and 0.13 under a Republican regime. However, Republican CEOs hold stable outside directorships across different ruling parties. Finally, the political cycle in the market for corporate director could be partially explained by the connection value in the regulated industry, but the regulated industry does not fully drive our main outcomes.

Keywords: Political Preference, Political Connections, Boards of Director, CEO, Career Concern

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Changmin and Jeon, Jihong and Seok, Woonam, Who, Republican or Democrat CEOs, Laughs Last? Political Cycles in the Market for Corporate Directors (June 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3189247 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3189247
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
K R Ahern , D Sosyura
Who writes the news? Corporate press releases during merger negotiations
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 241 - 291 Posted: 2014
Crossref
P Akey
Valuing changes in political networks: Evidence from campaign contributions to close congressional elections
Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 11 , p. 3188 - 3223 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Ilona Babenko , Viktar Fedaseyeu , Song Zhang
Do CEOs Affect Employees' Political Choices
BAFFI CAREFIN Centre Research Paper No. 2017-50, Forthcoming in Review of Financial Studies Pages: 70 Posted: 18 Apr 2017 Last revised: 3 May 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Borghesi , J F Houston , A Naranjo
Corporate socially responsible investments: CEO altruism, reputation, and shareholder interests
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 26 , p. 164 - 181 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,581
RANK
635,835
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies