Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Performance and Corporate Social Responsibility of Quoted Firms in Nigeria

International Journal of Innovative Social Sciences and Humanities Research 6(1):14-30, Jan-Mar., 2018

Posted: 18 Jun 2018

Uche T. Agburuga

Federal University Otuoke; Federal College of Education Technical Omoku

Date Written: January 31, 2018

Abstract

The study examined the relationship between financial performance and corporate social responsibility using secondary data from the financial statement of firms quoted on the Nigeria Stock Exchange between 2005 and 2015 spanning ten-year period and operating in the manufacturing, petroleum marketing, healthcare, and food and beverage sub sectors. The study was conducted using content analysis and logit regression. The independent variable performance was represented by accounting methods; return on asset and return on capital employed and also by market based method; P/E ratio and Tobin Q. The dependent variable in the study CSR was represented by Employee management and Community development. Findings indicate that ROA and ROCE relate positively with employee management and negatively with community development. Furthermore, firms with higher ROA are likely to disclose CSR than firms with higher returns on capital employed. Market price of a share have negative relationship with CSR. Larger firms are likely to disclose CSR than smaller firms while large firms that do not pay dividend are likely to disclose CSR information than those that pay dividend. The study also revealed that firms with higher Tobin Q disclose CD information and lower EM. Also, firm growth, firm size and leverage are positively related to EM, ROA and ROCE.

Keywords: Performance, Corporate Social Responsibility, Employee Management, Community Development, Return on Assets, Returns on Capital Employed, Tobin Q, Price Earnings Ratio

JEL Classification: D22, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Agburuga, Uche Toby, Financial Performance and Corporate Social Responsibility of Quoted Firms in Nigeria (January 31, 2018). International Journal of Innovative Social Sciences and Humanities Research 6(1):14-30, Jan-Mar., 2018 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3189610
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,056
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies