Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Non-CEO Inside Directors Add Value? Evidence From Unplanned CEO Turnovers

Review of Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2018 Last revised: 20 May 2019

Laurie Krigman

Babson College

Mia L. Rivolta

Xavier University

Date Written: January 22, 2019

Abstract

This paper investigates the roles of non-CEO inside directors (NCIDs) in the new CEO-firm matching process using the context of unplanned CEO departures when immediate CEO succession planning becomes a sole board responsibility. Although critics argue that inside directors decrease the monitoring effectiveness of a board, inside directors arguably possess superior firm specific experience and knowledge that can be beneficial during the leadership transition. Using a comprehensive, manually collected data set of unplanned CEO departures from 1993 to 2012, we find evidence that firms with NCIDs incur lower costs and have stronger performance after an unplanned CEO departure. The impact of NCIDs is particularly important when the firm hires an outsider as the new CEO. These results suggest that board composition affects frictions in the CEO labor market.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, CEO Succession, CEO Turnover, Board of Directors

JEL Classification: G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Krigman, Laurie and Rivolta, Mia L., Can Non-CEO Inside Directors Add Value? Evidence From Unplanned CEO Turnovers (January 22, 2019). Review of Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3190307 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3190307
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Z Alam , M Chen , C Ciccotello , H Ryan
Does the location of directors matter? Information acquisition and board decisions
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 131 - 164 Posted: 2014
Crossref
B M Barber , J D Lyon
Detecting abnormal performance: the empirical power and specification of test statistics
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 41 , p. 359 - 399 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,283
RANK
459,150
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies