Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR Communication Tactics and the Micro-Accumulation of Reputational Capital

53 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2018

Gregory D. Saxton

Schulich School of Business, York University

Date Written: June 5, 2018

Abstract

There is growing evidence corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance should be understood as something that is not just reported but communicated. Particularly with the advent of social media, CSR is increasingly seen not just in one-way disclosure but in firms’ mobilizational efforts, two-way dialogue with stakeholders, public educational messages, and a variety of other discursive and conversational tactics. Moreover, some of these tactics are more likely to influence public perceptions of the firm. Examining the 18,722 original messages sent by Fortune 200 firms’ dedicated CSR feeds on Twitter in 2014, I thus identify nine communication tactics and test how they are linked to micro-level changes in two dimensions of corporate reputation. I find the aware- ness dimension of reputation is driven by the use of informational tactics such as disclosure, while reputational favorability is significantly influenced not by the provision of information but by the use of more interactive communicative tactics. This study provides evidence of a number of new, non-reporting-based CSR communication tactics and illustrates how firms acquire reputational capital on a micro-, message-by-message, day-to-day level.

Keywords: analytics, Big Data, communication, CSR reporting, machine learning, reputation, social media

Suggested Citation:

Saxton, Gregory D., CSR Communication Tactics and the Micro-Accumulation of Reputational Capital (June 5, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3191650 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3191650
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
H Aguinis , A Glavas
What we know and don't know about corporate social responsibility: A review and research agenda
Journal of Management , volume 38 , p. 932 - 968 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C Anderson
The long tail: Why the future of business is selling less of more Posted: 2006
D Bach , D Allen
What every CEO needs to know about nonmarket strategy
MIT Sloan Management Review , volume 51 , p. 41 - 48 Posted: 2010
E Bakshy , J M Hofman , W A Mason , D J Watts
Everyone's an influencer: Quantifying influence on Twitter
Proceedings of the Fourth ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Mining , p. 65 - 74 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,710
RANK
304,916
1 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies