Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Firm's Characteristic and Corporate Governance to Sustainability Report Disclosure

SEEIJ (Social Economics and Ecology International Journal), 2(1), Mar 2018, 18-28

11 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2018

Lucia Lucia

Agung Sedayu Group - Finance and Accounting Division

Rosinta Ria Panggabean

Accounting Department, Faculty of Economics and Communication, Bina Nusantara University

Date Written: March 6, 2017

Abstract

The purpose of this study was to analyze the effect of company’s characteristic which are profitability (ROA), leverage (DER), liquidity (CR), company size (SIZE), and corporate governance proxied by board of directors and audit committee (KA) to disclosure of sustainability reports (SR). The study had 105 samples of manufacturing companies listed in Indonesia Stock Exchange and 262 manufacturing companies listed on Malaysia Exchange in year 2013-2015. Data analysis using regression logistic method with E-views version 9. Hypothesis testing results show that the partial results of hypothesis testing variable DER, CR, and Directors do not have significant effect on internet financial reporting, but ROA and SIZE have significant influence on sustainability report disclosure (SR) of manufacturing companies listed in IDX and Bursa Malaysia.

Keywords: Disclosure, leverage, liquidity, profitability, sustainability report

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Lucia, Lucia and Panggabean, Rosinta Ria, The Effect of Firm's Characteristic and Corporate Governance to Sustainability Report Disclosure (March 6, 2017). SEEIJ (Social Economics and Ecology International Journal), 2(1), Mar 2018, 18-28, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3191985
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
F Adhipradana
Pengaruh Kinerja Keuangan, Ukuran Perusahaan, dan Akuntansi
Diponegoro Journal of Accounting , volume 3 , issue 1 Posted: 2014
F Ahmad
Pengaruh Karakteristik Perusahaan dan Profitabilitas terhadap Pengungkapan Sustainability Report Posted: 2014
A Aniktia , M Khafi
Pengaruh Mekanisme Good Corporate Governance dan Kinerja Keuangan terhadap Pengungkapan Sustainability Reporting
Accounting Analysis Journal , volume 4 , issue 3 Posted: 2015
A Aziz
Pengaruh Good Corporate Governance terhadap Kualitas Sustainability Report
Jurnal Audit dan Akuntansi , volume 3 , issue 2 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,083
RANK
42,529
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies