Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants and Consequences of Chief Information Officer Equity Incentives

43 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2018

Juan Manuel Sanchez

University of Texas at San Antonio

Rod Smith

Cal State University Long Beach

Vernon J. Richardson

University of Arkansas at Fayetteville

Pankaj Setia

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Information Systems

Date Written: June 6, 2018

Abstract

The chief information officer (CIO) is responsible for bridging the gap between two critical domains—technology and business, making the CIO’s job uniquely different from other executives. As digital technologies become increasingly important to firms’ competitive success, boards of directors and senior executives seek to align the CIO role with overall firm’s objectives. Agency theory suggests that one way to create the alignment between an executive’s efforts and firm performance is to implement appropriate equity compensation incentives (i.e., those resulting from stock and stock options) tying the executive’s wealth to firm value. To date, research does not address what factors a firm should consider when designing CIO incentives and how these incentives influence firm performance. To address this major gap, we examine both the antecedents and performance consequences of CIO equity incentives. We assess organizational, environmental, and individual factors that influence CIO equity incentives and find that environmental and organizational factors are more important than individual CIO characteristics in the determination of CIO equity incentives. We also find that firms that create higher CIO equity incentives realize greater subsequent accounting and market performance. Our research contributes to the IT personnel literatures by showing how firms can use compensation policies to leverage the CIO role to enhance overall business performance.

Keywords: CIO compensation, Chief Information Officer, CIO incentives, firm performance, strategic alignment

JEL Classification: G00, G32, M1, M52, M54, J23, J24, M15

Suggested Citation:

Sanchez, Juan Manuel and Smith, Rodney E. and Richardson, Vernon J. and Setia, Pankaj, Determinants and Consequences of Chief Information Officer Equity Incentives (June 6, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3192082 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3192082
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
118 References
R Aggarwal , A Samwick
Performance Incentives within firms: The effect of managerial responsibility
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 4 , p. 1613 - 1649 Posted: 2003
Crossref
E Amir , Y Guan , G Livne
The Association of R&D and capital expenditures with subsequent earnings variability
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 222 - 246 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M C Anderson , R Banker , S Ravindran
Executive compensation in the information technology industry
Management Science , volume 46 , issue 4 , p. 530 - 547 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Antia , C Pantzalis , J C Park
CEO decision horizon and firm performance: an empirical investigation
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 16 , p. 288 - 301 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,680
RANK
304,916
2 Citations
118 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies