Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evolving Norms of Corporate Social Responsibility: Lessons Learned from the European Union Directive On Non-Financial Reporting

Transactions: The Tennessee Journal of Business Law. Vol. 19, pp. 619-708 (2018)

Saint Louis U. Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2018-2

91 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2018 Last revised: 21 Aug 2018

Constance Z. Wagner

Saint Louis University - School of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This article examines an important development in the field of corporate social responsibility, namely the adoption of a 2014 European Union Directive (“2014 EU Directive”) mandating non-financial reporting by certain large companies. Such disclosure has traditionally been provided by businesses on a voluntary basis, but the 2014 EU Directive reflects an emerging global trends toward mandatory reporting. Such trend emerged in response to the perceived low quantity and poor quality of information disclosed voluntarily on social and environmental topics of importance to corporate stakeholders. The author analyzes the history and development of policy and legislation on this issue both at the European Union level and within two Member States that have been leaders in the area of corporate social responsibility reporting, namely France and Denmark. Such analysis draws on literature from the fields of both law and business and is conducted within the larger frame of the global growth of non-financial reporting and the role that such reporting plays as a mechanism to enhance socially responsible behavior by business. An important feature of the 2014 EU Directive is its regulatory approach, which has been called a “smart mix approach” because it introduces an element of government regulation while still allowing businesses to make significant choices about disclosure on a voluntary basis. The author concludes that the 2014 EU Directive may result in a greater quantity of disclosure, but it may not be as successful in achieving the goal of improved quality of such reporting due to fundamental weaknesses in the regulatory approach and content of the 2014 EU Directive, as well as to the lack of preconditions in Member States needed for improved corporate transparency on social and environmental issues. The lessons from the European Union experience detailed in this article may prove useful for countries like the United States, where the development of non-financial reporting has lagged behind other countries.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, non-financial reporting, European Union and corporate law

Suggested Citation:

Wagner, Constance Z., Evolving Norms of Corporate Social Responsibility: Lessons Learned from the European Union Directive On Non-Financial Reporting. Transactions: The Tennessee Journal of Business Law. Vol. 19, pp. 619-708 (2018), Saint Louis U. Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2018-2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3192493
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Id
Crossref
The Danish Government, Action Plan for Corporate Social Responsibility 1, 21 CSR-GOV Posted: 2008-05
Act, supra note 240, § 99a
Karin Buhmann
The Danish CSR Reporting Requirement as Reflexive Law: Employing CSR as a Modality to Promote Public Policy
University of Oslo Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2011-36 Pages: 25 Posted: 24 Nov 2011 Last revised: 24 Nov 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,331
RANK
154,352
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Saint Louis University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies