Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility in Bangladesh: The Role of Islami Bank Bangladesh Limited

Ahmad, A.U.F., and Rahman, S. (2013). Corporate Social Responsibility in Bangladesh: The role of Islami Bank Bangladesh Limited. International Journal of Excellence in Islamic Banking and Finance, 3(1), 66-79

15 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2018 Last revised: 7 Sep 2023

Shafiqur Rahman

Independent

Abu Umar Faruq Ahmad

United International University; Islamic Economics Institute; Universiti Brunei Darussalam; INCEIF University; Hamdan Bin Mohammed Smart University; Islamic Cooperative Finance Australia Ltd; Guidance College; Institute of Policy Studies, Universiti Brunei Darussalam; International Shariah Research Academy for Islamic Finance

Date Written: June 8, 2013

Abstract

Purpose - This paper analyses the CSR Role of Islami Bank Bangladesh Limited targeted to contribute in the economic, social and environmental betterment of Bangladesh as well as for its citizens

Methodology - For the purpose of this study, Content Analysis has been considered as the most appropriate research method. To understand the role of IBBL in CSR activities in Bangladesh, a content analysis has been conducted utilizing relevant articles, books, periodicals, annual reports and websites

Findings - The study reveals that IBBL is making significant contribution towards Bangladesh society through its CSR activities. It is evident that IBBL effectively addresses the social, environmental and economic concerns of Bangladesh within its limits

Research limitations - This study is based on content analysis, which requires the access to all relevant information, which is limited in case of IBBL, except the Annual Reports, websites and a few journal articles on the CSR activities of this bank

Practical implications: This study will be a useful tool for future researchers. This study will also be a good source of information for different users like government, NGOs and civil society members.

Originality - The number scholarly work on CSR in Bangladesh from Islamic perspective is very limited. Moreover, there has been no prior work on IBBL’s CSR performance except a study on IBBL’s CSR by in healthcare. So, a study on the CSR role of IBBL is an original contribution to literature

Keywords: CSR, Role of IBBL, Bangladesh

JEL Classification: G30, M14

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Shafiqur and Ahmad, Prof Abu Umar Faruq, Corporate Social Responsibility in Bangladesh: The Role of Islami Bank Bangladesh Limited (June 8, 2013). Ahmad, A.U.F., and Rahman, S. (2013). Corporate Social Responsibility in Bangladesh: The role of Islami Bank Bangladesh Limited. International Journal of Excellence in Islamic Banking and Finance, 3(1), 66-79, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3192767 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3192767
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
K Ahmad
Islamic Ethics in a Changing Environment for Managers
Ethics in Business and Management: Islamic and Mainstream Approaches Posted: 2002
Bgmea
Trade Information Posted: 2011-09-25
A R Belal
a). 'Corporate Social Performance Reporting in Bangladesh
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 133 - 141 Posted: 2000
A R Belal
b). 'Environmental Reporting in Developing Countries: Empirical Evidence from Bangladesh
Eco Management and Auditing , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 114 - 121 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,376
RANK
592,557
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies