Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unionization and IPO Underpricing

59 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2018 Last revised: 13 Jun 2021

Antonios Chantziaras

International Hellenic University (IHU)

Dimitrios Gounopoulos

University of Bath - School of Management

Stergios Leventis

International Hellenic University (IHU)

Vangelis Souitaris

City University London - Faculty of Management

Date Written: June 10, 2021

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of labor unionization on IPO underpricing. We demonstrate that the existence of unions reduces underpricing by 11.20%. Unionized IPOs are associated with downward offer-price revisions, higher cost of capital, inferior firm-operating performance, and incremental failure risk. We argue that union presence discourages investor participation, since investors discount the value of unionized IPOs. We conclude that labor unionization is an important factor in IPO pricing and first-day returns. Our findings are of particular interest to managers, labor unionists, and market participants.

Keywords: Initial Public Offerings, IPO Underpricing, Labor Unions, Unionization

JEL Classification: G10, G39, J50, J51

Suggested Citation:

Chantziaras, Antonios and Gounopoulos, Dimitrios and Leventis, Stergios and Souitaris, Vangelis, Unionization and IPO Underpricing (June 10, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3193746 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3193746
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
J Bédard , D Coulombe , L Courteau , Y.-S Chen , I J Chen , D Gounopoulos , A Kallias , K Kallias , P G Tzeremes
The impact of labor unions on investment-cash flow sensitivity
Political money contributions of U.S. IPOs. Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 43 , p. 19 - 38 Posted: 2008
Crossref
D Gounopoulos , H Pham
Specialist CEOs and IPO survival
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 48 , p. 217 - 243 Posted: 2018
Crossref
M A Habib , A P Ljungqvist
Underpricing and entrepreneurial wealth losses in IPOs: Theory and evidence. The Review of Financial Studies , volume 14 , p. 433 - 458 Posted: 2001
Load more
1 Citations
Mine Ertugrul , Dalia Marciukaityte
Labor unions and corporate social responsibility
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 125 , p. 106061 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,252
RANK
293,623
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies