Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lame-Duck CEOs

56 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2018 Last revised: 30 Aug 2023

Marc Gabarro

Erasmus University

Sebastian Gryglewicz

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Shuo Xia

Halle Institute for Economic Research; University of Leipzig - Faculty of Economics and Management Science

Date Written: September 29, 2018

Abstract

Financial authorities and investors have raised concerns about protracted CEO successions. We document that about a third of CEO successions are protracted, during which a lame-duck CEO continues to run the firm for about six months before a successor is announced. Despite a negative stock price reaction to protracted succession announcements, firms run by lame-duck CEOs perform well on various measures: they generate an annual four-factor alpha of 9.6% and exhibit positive abnormal returns around earnings announcements. Testing different mechanisms, we show that the results are stronger when the competition between internal candidates is more intense. Our findings suggest that the market misprices the value of firms with lame-duck CEOs, but protracted successions are not detrimental to firm value.


Keywords: CEO turnovers, succession planning, tournaments, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G34, J63, J64, M12, M51

Suggested Citation:

Gabarro, Marc and Gryglewicz, Sebastian and Xia, Shuo, Lame-Duck CEOs (September 29, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3193048 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3193048
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
B Panel
Protracted succession term (days) Year Mean
CEO tenure and earnings management , volume 59 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2005
Andrew Ang , Robert J Hodrick , Yuhang Xing , Xiaoyan Zhang
High idiosyncratic volatility and low returns: International and further U.S. evidence
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 91 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2009
Gary A Ballinger , Jeremy J Marcel
The use of an interim CEO during succession episodes and firm performance
Strategic Management Journal , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 262 - 283 Posted: 2010
Lucian Bebchuk , K J Martijn Cremers , Urs C Peyer
The CEO pay slice
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 199 - 221 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,089
RANK
256,420
1 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies