Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between Corporate Social Responsibility and Financial Performance of Indian Banks

The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XVI, No. 2, April 2017, pp. 39-53

Posted: 25 Jun 2018

Akanksha Shukla

Independent

Geetika .

Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT)

Date Written: June 11, 2018

Abstract

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is well recognized across the world as various international bodies, government authorities and regulators are taking cognizance of the matter and framing guidelines to be adopted by the corporate. The social concern of corporate has taken the front seat in the forum of issues related with good governance practices to achieve sustainability. But still the type of industry for which CSR is relevant is under question. The present paper attempts to answer the question by determining the impact of CSR on the financial performance of the banks. It uses regression analysis to determine the impact of CSR expenditure on the financial performance of banks, measured using Profit After Tax (PAT), Return on Assets (ROA), Return on Equity (ROE) and market capitalization of the banks. As a result of the study, a validated model is developed, which shows a positive relationship between CSR expenditure and different measures of financial performance while firm size is controlled.

Suggested Citation:

Shukla, Akanksha and ., Geetika, The Relationship between Corporate Social Responsibility and Financial Performance of Indian Banks (June 11, 2018). The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XVI, No. 2, April 2017, pp. 39-53, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3193871
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,089
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies