Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incentives, Opportunities, and Earnings Management Using Tax Expense

56 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2018 Last revised: 22 May 2019

Erik Beardsley

University of Illinois

Mehmet Kara

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Connie D. Weaver

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 20, 2019

Abstract

Prior studies that examine the effect of managerial incentives on investment or misreporting decisions typically hold firm characteristics constant and focus on a particular managerial incentive. However, managers’ responses to different types of incentives likely depend on firm characteristics that create opportunities to respond to those incentives. Using year-end tax expense manipulations as our setting, we examine the extent to which equity incentives, firm characteristics that create opportunities, and their interaction are associated with the decision to manage earnings. We show that stock price incentives (portfolio delta), risk-taking incentives (portfolio vega), and firm characteristics that create opportunities are associated with a greater propensity for firms to manage earnings using tax expense. Importantly, we find that portfolio delta has a greater effect on the earnings management decision when firm opportunities are higher, while we do not find evidence that the effect of portfolio vega varies with firm opportunities. Collectively, our results suggest that managers respond to stock price and risk-taking incentives differently depending on their opportunity sets.

Keywords: tax expense, executive compensation, earnings management, market response

JEL Classification: H25, J33, M40, M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Beardsley, Erik and Kara, Mehmet and Weaver, Connie D., Incentives, Opportunities, and Earnings Management Using Tax Expense (May 20, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3198771 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3198771
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
379
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,582
RANK
179,159
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies