Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Compensation System Structure: The Interrelation Between Equitable Pay and Firm Performance

76 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2018

Hamilton Elkins

University of Saskatchewan- Edwards School of Business

Date Written: March 15, 2018

Abstract

Recent political and popular discourse focusing on income inequality between ordinary workers and top executives concentrates on the ratio of chief executive officer (CEO) compensation to “average” or median employee compensation (CEO pay ratio). Largely ignored in the income inequality debate is the importance of the underlying firm’s compensation system that determines the CEO’s and the average employee’s compensations. I propose employee perceptions of pay equitability are a function of how employees’ compensation fits in the firm’s compensation system, so CEO pay ratios may be incapable of detecting the underlying firm compensation system structure. Because the structure of the compensation system dictates the relative differences between superior and subordinate pay, I measure the compensation system structure using the promotional pay ladder (PPL), which measures how percentage increases in compensation correspond to increases in employee responsibility. I find that firms with “unequal” PPL (those which deviate from a theorized effective threshold) are associated with lower future economic performance. Deviations above and below the theorized effective level affect different groups of employees in the firm and have different impacts on firm performance. This study contributes to the growing literature on income inequality by providing evidence that employee compensation amounts need to be examined within the context of the firm’s compensation system.

Keywords: Executive Compensation, Non-Executive Compensation, Income Inequality, Equitable Compensation, Relative Compensation, Compensation Distribution, CEO Pay Ratio

JEL Classification: J31, M12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Elkins, Hamilton, Measuring Compensation System Structure: The Interrelation Between Equitable Pay and Firm Performance (March 15, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3198893 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3198893
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,884
RANK
303,587
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies