Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Relations and Information Assimilation

57 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2018

Kimball Chapman
Gregory S. Miller

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Hal D. White

University of Notre Dame

Date Written: June 8, 2018

Abstract

Research has shown the importance of corporate disclosure and dissemination in reducing information asymmetry and improving market efficiency. However, while investors and analysts might receive corporate disclosures, they often need help with assimilating the information to better understand its implications for firm value. This paper examines whether investor relations (IR) officers provide value by facilitating the assimilation of firm information by the market. We find that firms with IR officers have lower stock price volatility, lower analyst forecast dispersion, higher analyst forecast accuracy, and quicker price discovery, consistent with IR officers aiding market participants in their assimilation of firm information. We also show that our findings are stronger for firms with longer-tenured IR officers. Finally, we find that when firms transition from a long-tenured IR officer to a new IR officer, stock price volatility increases, analyst forecasts become more disperse and less accurate, and the price discovery process slows, despite no significant change in the firm’s disclosures, media coverage, or performance around the turnover. Collectively, these findings suggest that in-house IR officers, particularly those with greater experience, help facilitate information assimilation by the market, which has positive market effects.

Keywords: Investor Relations; Information Assimilation; Information Processing

Suggested Citation:

Chapman, Kimball and Miller, Gregory S. and White, Hal D., Investor Relations and Information Assimilation (June 8, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3200592 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3200592
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
G A Akerlof
The market for Lemons: Quality, Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics Posted: 1970
Crossref
C B Barry
Effects of uncertain and nonstationary parameters upon capital market equilibrium conditions
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 419 - 433 Posted: 1978
Crossref
A Beyer , D Cohen , T Lys , R Walther
The Financial Reporting Environment: Review of The Recent Literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M B Billings , R Jennings , B Lev
On guidance and volatility
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 2 , p. 161 - 180 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
681
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,410
RANK
87,812
91 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies