Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Environmental Liabilities and Capital Structure

47 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2018 Last revised: 6 Mar 2023

Xin Chang

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Kangkang Fu

Hong Kong Baptist University

Tao Li

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Economics

Lewis Tam

Faculty of Business Administration, University of Macau

George Wong

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: December 31, 2021

Abstract

We investigate the capital structure implications of corporate environmental liabilities, which are measured using the amount of toxic production-related waste produced by firms. We document that firms with higher environmental liabilities maintain lower debt-to-assets ratios, suggesting that environmental liabilities work as a substitute for financial liabilities. The substitution effect is more pronounced for firms that are larger, followed by more financial analysts, more reliant on principal customers, or more subject to community concerns. Further analyses show that ceteris paribus, less environmentally responsible firms have a lower fraction of bank debt in total debt, consistent with the notion that banks are more environmentally sensitive than other lenders. Overall, our findings imply that being environmentally responsible can enhance a firm’s debt capacity and improve its access to bank credit.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, corporate environmental responsibility, environmental liability, capital structure, debt structure

JEL Classification: G32, L11

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Xin and Fu, Kangkang and Li, Tao and Tam, Lewis and Wong, George, Corporate Environmental Liabilities and Capital Structure (December 31, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3200991 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3200991
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
Pat Akey , Ian Appel
The limits of limited liability: Evidence from industrial pollution
Journal of Finance , volume 76 , p. 5 - 55 Posted: 2021
Rui Albuquerque , Yrjö Koskinen , Chendi Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
Heitor Almeida , Thomas Philippon
The risk-adjusted cost of financial distress
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 2557 - 2586 Posted: 2007
Edward I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 189 - 209 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,318
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,998
RANK
35,151
11 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies