Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Prosecution on Corporate Investment: Evidence from the Anti-Bribery Enforcement Actions

50 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2018 Last revised: 22 Jan 2022

Olivier Greusard

University of Quebec at Montreal (UQAM) - Université du Québec à Montréal

Date Written: October 25, 2021

Abstract

In this paper, I investigate whether prosecution under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) affects the level of investment of targeted firms and their peers in the same industry. I find that peer firms decrease the level of their investment once they become aware of the opening of an FCPA investigation in their industry, while targeted firms do not significantly correct their investment. More surprisingly, I find that the decrease in investment is lower for cases revealed after December 2004, when the prosecutor used alternative resolution vehicles for the first time to resolve a FCPA case. My results suggest that the ability to use non-prosecution agreements (NPAs) and deferred prosecution agreements (DPAs) to resolve FCPA cases mitigates the effect of the law, as peer firms consider that their probability of surviving an investigation is higher than before 2005. These results are robust to alternative measures of investment identified in the literature and to alternative specifications of the peer group.

Keywords: Anti-bribery laws, Peer effect, Investment, FCPA, Corruption

JEL Classification: D25, F21, G30, G31, G38, K42

Suggested Citation:

Greusard, Olivier, The Impact of Prosecution on Corporate Investment: Evidence from the Anti-Bribery Enforcement Actions (October 25, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3200407 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3200407
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
A Abel , J Eberly
A Unified Model of Investment Under Uncertainty Posted: 1993
J Arlen
Prosecuting Beyond the Rule of Law: Corporate Mandates Imposed through Deferred Prosecution Agreements
Journal of Legal Analysis , volume 8 , p. 191 - 234 Posted: 2016
J Arlen , M Kahan
Corporate Governance Regulation through Nonprosecution. University of Chicago Law Review , volume 84 , p. 323 - 387 Posted: 2017
G S Becker
Crime and Punishment: An Economic Approach
Journal of Political Economy , volume 76 , p. 169 - 217 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
467
RANK
889,053
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies