Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Power of Words in Capital Markets: SEC Comment Letters on Foreign Issuers and the Impact of Domestic Enforcement

68 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2018

Daniel Giamouridis

Qube Research & Technologies; Bayes Business School (formerly Cass), City, University of London

Kleopatra Koulikidou

International Hellenic University - School of Economics and Business Administration; International Hellenic University (IHU)

Stergios Leventis

International Hellenic University (IHU)

Date Written: May 20, 2018

Abstract

In this paper, we examine the language tone of comment letters issued to foreign firms listed on US stock exchanges and the impact of domestic enforcement. We find that the tone of SEC reviews has capital market implications following the dissemination of comment letters. Using a textual analysis methodology, we gauge SEC linguistic nuance by creating a customized wordlist for the US regulatory context. We evaluate alternative measures of tone and present evidence that our discipline-specific tone measure outperforms the frequently-cited dictionaries employed in analyses of corporate narratives. We document that negative-tone regulatory language, in contrast to positive, produces significant investor reactions. We further demonstrate that negative market reactions are amplified relative to the strength of domestic enforcement environments. Finally, we find that negative-tone measures generate the same directional capital effect on both US GAAP and non-US GAAP filers; however, when we consider only the important comment letters, the market reaction is more negative for foreign firms which apply the US GAAP. We offer important implications for enforcement agencies, companies, lenders and investors.

Keywords: Enforcement, SEC Comment Letters, Textual Analysis, Tone, Investor Reaction

JEL Classification: M48, K42, G14

Suggested Citation:

Giamouridis, Daniel and Koulikidou, Kleopatra and Leventis, Stergios, The Power of Words in Capital Markets: SEC Comment Letters on Foreign Issuers and the Impact of Domestic Enforcement (May 20, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3200306 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3200306
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: Properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
F R Baumeister , E Bratslavsky , C Finkenauer , D K Vohs
Bad is stronger than good
Review of General Psycology , volume 5 , p. 323 - 370 Posted: 2001
Crossref
V Beattie
Accounting narratives and the narrative turn in accounting research: Issues, theory, methodology, methods and a research framework
The British Accounting Review , volume 46 , p. 111 - 134 Posted: 2014
Crossref
R G Bell , I Filatotchev , A Rasheed
The liability of foreignness in capital markets: Sources and remedies
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 43 , p. 107 - 122 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
269
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,120
RANK
259,334
5 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies