Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Quality and Board Independence

9 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2018

Rajesh Chakrabarti

O. P. Jindal Global University

Date Written: June 21, 2018

Abstract

The paper discusses the “interaction factor” between the board of directors and the auditors in light of the Kotak Committee report on corporate governance and the two-year ban on PwC. Quality of auditing has been a relatively late discovery of corporate governance reforms in India. The Kotak Committee continues the continued the thrust of corporate governance reforms through strengthening of corporate boards through the device of independent directors and greater disclosure. Regulatory pressure to open up the boardroom, however, risks producing a staged sham while the real action moves elsewhere.

Suggested Citation:

Chakrabarti, Rajesh, Audit Quality and Board Independence (June 21, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3200764 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3200764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,539
RANK
350,629
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies