Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance through Codes

Haxhi I., & Aguilera, R. V. 2014. Corporate Governance Through Codes, In C. Cooper (Ed.) Wiley Encyclopedia of Management 3rd Edition, International Management, Wiley-Blackwell, 6: 1-3.

9 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2018

Ilir Haxhi

University of Amsterdam Business School

Ruth V. Aguilera

Northeastern University (USA) - Department of International Business and Strategy

Date Written: June 22, 2014

Abstract

The U.K.’s 1992 Cadbury Report defines corporate governance (CG) as the system by which businesses are directed and controlled. CG codes are a set of best practices designed to address deficiencies in the formal contracts and institutions by suggesting prescriptions on the preferred role and composition of the board of directors, relationships with shareholders and top management, auditing and information disclosure, and the remuneration and dismissal of directors. Codes can be distinguished from other modes of regulation in that they are formally non-binding, exemplified in the widely used ‘comply-or-explain’ principle, issued by committees of experts, flexible in their application, built on the market mechanism for evaluation of deviations and evolutionary in nature.

Several scholars consider the Cadbury Code (1992) as the original code, although the first code was created in 1978 in the U.S. Today about 90 nations worldwide have issued their own code(s). Regulating CG through codes is seen as a process, where ‘soft rules’, e.g., codes, are favored over traditional ‘hard rules’. However, unlike ‘hard’ law regulation, e.g., Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, codes may not lead to the optimal CG; i.e., they merely reduce the worst corporate behavior but do not foster the best practices through strict compliance.

Suggested Citation:

Haxhi, Ilir and Aguilera, Ruth V., Corporate Governance through Codes (June 22, 2014). Haxhi I., & Aguilera, R. V. 2014. Corporate Governance Through Codes, In C. Cooper (Ed.) Wiley Encyclopedia of Management 3rd Edition, International Management, Wiley-Blackwell, 6: 1-3. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3201143
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
V R Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of good governance worldwide: what is the trigger? Organization Studies , volume 25 , p. 415 - 443 Posted: 2004
Crossref
V R Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of good governance
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 376 - 387 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Aguilera , G Jackson
The cross-national diversity of corporate governance: dimensions and determinants , volume 28 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
Comparative and international corporate governance
Annals of the Academy of Management , volume 4 , p. 485 - 556 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
401
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,946
RANK
168,133
5 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies