Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compensation of Internal Auditors – Empirical Evidence for Different Impact Factors

Corporate Ownership & Control / Volume 17, Issue 1, Autumn 2019 (Special Issue)

14 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2018 Last revised: 9 Jan 2020

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Tatiana Mazza

Free University of Bozen-Bolzano

Joel Behrend

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Ronja Krane

University of Duisburg-Essen

Date Written: December 27, 2019

Abstract

This paper examines the different factors which impact the compensation level of chief audit executives (CAE) and sheds light on often unobservable and, therefore, opaque drivers of CAE remuneration. An ordered logistic regression is used to analyze the effects of internal audit function (IAF) competences, stakeholder relationships, and firm complexity on the CAE compensation using survey data from 212 CAEs from a broad spectrum of companies and industries. The results of the study identify IAF competence and independence as fundamental drivers of CAE compensation and provide evidence that firm complexity in terms of foreign sales, listing status and need for monitoring constitute additional salary determinants related to the IAF environment. Our results are based on questionnaire data and subject to a possible response bias as they rely in part on the participants’ assessment of a given situation. This paper provides a benchmark for CAE compensation levels in Austria, Germany and Switzerland and offers insights on different company and IAF inherent factors that can be associated with varying salary outcomes. This study is the first to investigate the factors driving the overall compensation level of CAEs and by providing empirical evidence regarding determinants of CAE compensation.

Keywords: Internal Auditor, Internal Auditing Function, Chief Audit Executive, Compensation, Determinants

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Eulerich, Marc and Mazza, Tatiana and Behrend, Joel and Krane, Ronja, Compensation of Internal Auditors – Empirical Evidence for Different Impact Factors (December 27, 2019). Corporate Ownership & Control / Volume 17, Issue 1, Autumn 2019 (Special Issue), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3202475 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3202475
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,283
RANK
225,902
1 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies