Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Corporate Governance on Relational Capital Disclosure Among High Growth Technology Companies

Malaysian Accounting Review 15(1): 29-61, 2016

Posted: 16 Jul 2018

Norman Mohd-Saleh

Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia - Faculty of Economics and Management

Saiful Bakhtiar

Independent

Date Written: June 25, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between corporate governance elements and relational capital disclosure. This study analyses 229 annual reports of companies in the technology industry that are listed on the Main and ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia. The results indicate that multiple directorships, institutional and government ownerships positively affect relational capital disclosure. Managerial ownership, on the other hand, reduces the incentives of the management to signal such information. In addition, we also find younger companies to have more incentives to disclose relational capital information compared to more established companies. Contrary from past research, this study used a conceptual model developed based on network theory that suggests companies have an incentive to increase their competitive advantage by increasing network between organizations. This study is the first of its kind that specifically investigates the association between relational capital disclosures with the corporate governance practices. The results highlight that important corporate governance determinants of relational capital disclosure can be predicted when signaling intention of the board and network arguments are considered. The findings are useful for regulators in emerging countries characterized by highly networked economy, whereby, business and personal networks are important for company sustainability.

Keywords: corporate governance, capital growth, high growth companies

Suggested Citation:

Mohd-Saleh, Norman and Bakhtiar, Saiful, The Influence of Corporate Governance on Relational Capital Disclosure Among High Growth Technology Companies (June 25, 2016). Malaysian Accounting Review 15(1): 29-61, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3202166
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,090
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies