Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do CEOs Know Best? Evidence from China

NBER Working Paper No. w24760

39 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2018 Last revised: 28 Aug 2025

Nicholas Bloom

Stanford University - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Hong Cheng

Wuhan University

Mark Duggan

Stanford University - Department of Economics

Li Hongbin

Tsinghua University

Franklin Qian

UNC Kenan-Flagler Business School - Finance Area

Date Written: June 2018

Abstract

We analyze a new management survey for around 1,000 firms and 10,000 employees across two large provinces in China. The unique aspect of this survey is it collected management data from the CEO, a random sample of senior managers and workers. We document four main results. First, management scores, much like productivity, have a wide spread with a long left-tail of poorly managed firms. This distribution of management scores is similar for CEOs, senior managers and workers management, and appears broadly reasonably compared to US scores for similar questions. Moreover, for all groups these scores correlate with firm performance, suggesting all employees within the firm are (at least partly) aware of the their firms’ managerial abilities. Second, the scores across the groups are significantly cross-correlated, but far from completely. This suggests that while different levels of the firm have similar views on the firms’ management capabilities, they do not fully agree. Third, we find that the CEO’s management scores are the most predictive of firm performance, followed by the senior managers and then the workers. Hence, CEOs do appear to know best about their firms management strengths and weaknesses. Fourth, within-firm management score dispersion is negatively correlated with investment and R&D intensity, suggesting long-run planning is linked with greater consistency in management across levels in firms.

Suggested Citation:

Bloom, Nicholas and Cheng, Hong and Duggan, Mark and Hongbin, Li and Qian, Franklin, Do CEOs Know Best? Evidence from China (June 2018). NBER Working Paper No. w24760, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3202065
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Oriana Bandiera , Andrea Renata Lemos , Ra↵aella Prat , Sadun
Managing the Family Firm: Evidence from CEOs at Work
Review of Financial Studies Posted: 2017
Marianne Bertrand , Antoinette Schoar
Managing with Style: the E↵ect of Managers on Firm Policies
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 4 , p. 1169 - 1208 Posted: 2003
Nicholas Bloom , Van Reenen , John
Measuring and explaining management practices across firms and countries
Quarterly Journal of Economics Posted: 2007
Nicholas Bloom , Brynjolfsson , Erik , Foster , Lucia , Ron Jarmin , Patnaik , Megha , Itay Saporta-Ekstein , John Van Reenen
What drives di↵erences in management? Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,185
RANK
667,795
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies