Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Top Management Team Power in China: Measurement and Validation

Management Science, Forthcoming

73 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2018 Last revised: 12 Oct 2020

Bin Ke

National University of Singapore; Independent

Xinshu Mao

Beijing Technology and Business University

Bin Wang

Beijing Technology and Business University

Luo Zuo

National University of Singapore; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

Date Written: October 11, 2020

Abstract

We propose and validate a comprehensive measure of power for the top management teams (TMTs) of publicly listed Chinese firms. We show that our measure is positively associated with the four power dimensions developed by prior research for U.S. firms as well as three Asia-relevant power dimensions, including political capital, seniority and gender. We find that our TMT power measure is a valid proxy for TMT power for both state-controlled firms and non-state-controlled firms. We also compare our TMT power measure with one alternative TMT power proxy based on executive compensation and find no evidence that the alternative proxy is better than our measure in capturing TMT’s true power. Further, we provide evidence that the divergence between our power proxy and the power proxy based on executive compensation reflects nonmarket institutional forces in China and has important implications for corporate outcomes.

Keywords: power, top management team, executive compensation, nonmarket institutional force, China

JEL Classification: G02, G30, G31

Suggested Citation:

Ke, Bin and Mao, Xinshu and Wang, Bin and Zuo, Luo, Top Management Team Power in China: Measurement and Validation (October 11, 2020). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3202028 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3202028
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
D G Ancona
Top management teams: Preparing for the revolution
Applied Social Psychology and Organizational Settings , p. 99 - 128 Posted: 1990
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: Properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue 1-3 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L Bamber , J Jiang , I Wang
What's my style? The influence of top managers on voluntary corporate financial disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
Crossref
L Bebchuk , M Cremers , U Peyer
The CEO pay slice
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 199 - 221 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
791
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,561
RANK
72,133
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies