Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predictive Ability of Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance Coverage for Class Action Lawsuit Settlements

Accounting & Taxation, v. 10 (1) p. 23-38, 2018

16 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2019

Irene Y. Kim

George Washington University

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

The primary conclusion from prior literature is that firm size, as a measure of firm resources and capacity to pay, is a key predictor of class action securities settlement amount, and the merits of the case are less important in settlement negotiations. The purpose of this study is to shed additional light on the settlement determination process: given defendant incentives to avoid paying out of pocket and plaintiff incentives to settle quickly with maximum settlement, does directors’ and officers’ (D&O) insurance coverage limit explain variation in settlement amounts? I find that D&O coverage limit has predictive ability for settlement size, even when controlling for firm size. I also find that the association depends on the level of coverage; high D&O coverage has stronger explanatory power for settlements than low coverage, presumably due to the marginal benefits of plaintiff attorney effort at high levels of coverage to yield the big payoff. In sum, this paper contributes to the existing literature on predicting class action securities lawsuit settlements, which even though D&O coverage levels are unobservable to investors, impacts decision-making important to shareholders.

Keywords: Accounting, Securities Litigation

JEL Classification: K4, M4

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Irene Y., Predictive Ability of Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance Coverage for Class Action Lawsuit Settlements (2018). Accounting & Taxation, v. 10 (1) p. 23-38, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3203078
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,015
RANK
560,264
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies