Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Benefit Plan Audits on the Financial Statement Audit

54 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2018 Last revised: 20 Jan 2022

Jaclyn Prentice

University of Central Oklahoma

Kenneth L. Bills

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Gary F. Peters

University of Arkansas at Fayetteville

Date Written: January 19, 2022

Abstract

Benefit plan audits, a material but less understood public accounting service, represent a non-audit service that is “audit-related.” We explore the implications of benefit plan audits for the financial statement audit. We find that performing a benefit plan audit for a company significantly increases the likelihood that the firm will be selected as a company’s financial statement auditor in the future, particularly for smaller audit firms. Further, we find that companies that engage the same audit firm for both their benefit plan and financial statement audits have a significantly lower likelihood of misstatements and shorter audit report lags. Finally, we find evidence consistent with the joint provision of these services creating greater bonding and higher switching costs for the financial statement audit. Our findings speak to the continued debate over effective market expansion of financial statement audit providers, audit quality determinants, and audit efficiencies.

Keywords: auditor choice; audit quality; audit-related services; benefit plan audits; switching costs

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Prentice, Jaclyn and Bills, Kenneth L. and Peters, Gary F., The Impact of Benefit Plan Audits on the Financial Statement Audit (January 19, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3204039 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3204039
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Does mandated disclosure induce a structural change in the determinants of non-audit service purchases?
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 51 - 76 Posted: 2011
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
An empirical investigation of audit fees, non-audit fees, and audit committees
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 215 - 234 Posted: 2003
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , D Rama
Audit, non-audit, and information technology fees: Some empirical evidence
Accounting and the Public Interest , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2003
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA)
Statements on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 1 Posted: 1972
Load more
2 Citations
Karina Nazarova , Viktoriia Mysiuk , Volodimir Gordopolov , Viktor Koval , Irena Danilevičienė
PREVENTIONAL AUDIT: IMPLEMENTATION OF SOX CONTROL TO PREVENT FRAUD
Business: Theory and Practice , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 293 Posted: 2020
Crossref
John Aland , Heidi A. Packard , DJ Stockbridge
Return Bias in Employee-Owned Firms
66 Pages · Posted: 11 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 200
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
437
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,570
RANK
152,310
2 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies