Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voting Methods for Director Election, Monitoring Costs, and Institutional Ownership

Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2018 Last revised: 22 Feb 2020

Kee H. Chung

State University of New York at Buffalo - School of Management

Choonsik Lee

University of Rhode Island

Date Written: September 11, 2019

Abstract

We show that firms that employ the majority voting method for director election exhibit higher institutional ownership than firms that employ the plurality voting method, especially after the 2010 amendment to NYSE Rule 452. Firms that adopt majority voting in a bylaw or charter exhibit increases in institutional ownership and share price. These results are consistent with our conjecture that institutional investors favor companies with majority voting and investors react favorably to the adoption of majority voting because it reduces management monitoring costs by improving the accountability of elected board members.

Keywords: Majority Voting; Monitoring Costs; Institutional Investors; Director Accountability

JEL Classification: G34; G38

Suggested Citation:

Chung, Kee H. and Lee, Choonsik, Voting Methods for Director Election, Monitoring Costs, and Institutional Ownership (September 11, 2019). Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3206074 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3206074
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
L M Fairfax
Mandating board-shareholder engagement? University of Illinois Law Review, 821-60% 65% 70% 75% 80% 85% Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,408
RANK
472,791
1 Citations
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies