Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Ethical Leadership on Leadership Effectiveness Among SMEs in Malaysia

Procedia Manufacturing, Volume 22, 2018, Pages 968-974

7 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2018

Mitra Madanchian

University Canada West

Norashikin Hussein

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM) - Faculty of Business and Management

Fauziah Noordin

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM) - Faculty of Business and Management

Hamed Taherdoost

University Canada West; Global university system

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

One of the important sources for economic growth is the development of small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Research has shown that leadership is an important factor for organizational success. But the literature has indicated that leadership research in small businesses, especially SMEs in Malaysia, is still lacking. Thus, this study concentrates on the ethical leadership and leadership effectiveness among SMEs in Malaysia. To achieve this, this study begins by reviewing the literature in the areas of ethical leadership and leadership effectiveness. The quantitative approach is employed for data collection and analysis. To test the hypothesis data were collected from 150 Malaysia’ SMEs operating in service sector specifically Information Communication Technology (ICT). Exploratory factor analysis, confirmatory factor analysis and structural equation modelling (SEM) using path analysis were used to test the model and verify the hypothesis on the direct and positive effects of ethical leadership on leadership effectiveness. The findings of this research shows that ethical leadership have direct and positive effect on leadership effectiveness.

Keywords: Ethical Leadership; Leadership Effectiveness; SMEs

Suggested Citation:

Madanchian, Mitra and Hussein, Norashikin and Noordin, Fauziah and Taherdoost, Hamed, The Impact of Ethical Leadership on Leadership Effectiveness Among SMEs in Malaysia (2018). Procedia Manufacturing, Volume 22, 2018, Pages 968-974, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3206562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
M Sam
Owner-managers of SMEs in it sector: Leadership and company performance
International Journal of Business and Social Science , volume 3 , issue 14 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2012
H M Khairuddin , A , M Zakaria
Proceeding: International Conference on Islamic Leadership-2 (ICIL) , p. 455 - 465 Posted: 2012
A F Arham
The Relationship between Leadership Behaviour, Entrepreneurial Orientation and Organisational Performance in Malaysian Small and Medium Enterprises, in School of Management Posted: 2014
M Madanchian
The Relationship between Ethical Leadership, Leadership Effectiveness and Organizational Performance: A Review of Literature in SMEs Context
European Business & Management , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 21 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,651
RANK
429,664
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies