Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stakeholders’ Approach on Government Auditing in the Supreme Audit Institutions of Japan and Korea

Financial Accountability and Management, Forthcoming

Posted: 24 Jul 2018

Kiyoshi Yamamoto

University of Tokyo - Graduate School of education

Min Jeong Kim

Independent

Date Written: July 2, 2018

Abstract

From a stakeholder theory approach, this paper reports on a comparative case study between the Board of Audit of Japan (BOAJ) and the Board of Audit and Inspection of Korea (BAIK) on how to balance independence and responses to stakeholders’ needs within their limited resources. The empirical results show that the BOAJ maintains its independence partially adapting to political pressure: neither the Diet nor citizens have a mandate to enforce audits on requested issues. On the other hand, the BAIK meets citizens’ needs through screening instruments to maintain independence and political neutrality, while responding to audit requests from the National Assembly.

Keywords: SAI, Accountability, Audit, Stakeholder Model, Legislator

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Yamamoto, Kiyoshi and Kim, Min Jeong, Stakeholders’ Approach on Government Auditing in the Supreme Audit Institutions of Japan and Korea (July 2, 2018). Financial Accountability and Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3206995
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,112
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies