Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Increasing Board Effectiveness with the Balanced Scorecard – Theoretical Assumptions and Application in Practice

Discovery Economics, 1 (1), pp. 78-108.

31 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2018

Paul Eisenberg

University of Derby; University of Portsmouth

Date Written: June 22, 2018

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this work is to analyse whether the balanced scorecard implemented at the board of directors can enhance board effectiveness in a real-life case study of two leading UK financial institutions – Barclays Plc. and HSBC Holdings Plc.

Methodology – The analysis of the underlying theories and of the balanced scorecard concept is conducted through academic literature, corporate disclosures, public surveys and financial press review. The analysis is embedded in the context of the Agency Theory, the Shareholder Prerogative, the Efficient Market Hypothesis, the Agency-Stakeholder Paradigm and the Bounded Rationality Hypothesis.

Findings – The study constructs a Board Effectiveness Framework to test Barclays’ board balanced scorecard. The results show that HSBC operates a more effective board despite having no board balanced scorecard at place. Furthermore, the historical review shows that both the companies experience severe corporate governance failure throughout the last years. It is concluded, that ethics should accompany effectiveness, whereas effectiveness does not depend on certain tools like the balanced scorecard.

Limitations – Generalising statements may not be appropriate on the basis of a case study of two entities.

Originality – The author is not aware of any Board Effectiveness Framework to test real-life scorecards against academic assumptions. The study contributes to the body of literature on the board effectiveness approach which yet has not gained as much attention as the structural approach and the regulatory approach.

Keywords: Agency Theory, Shareholder Prerogative, Agency-Stakeholder Paradigm, Bounded Rationality Hypothesis, Board Effectiveness Framework

JEL Classification: G20, G21, G32, M12, M14, M40, M49, M50, M59

Suggested Citation:

Eisenberg, Paul, Increasing Board Effectiveness with the Balanced Scorecard – Theoretical Assumptions and Application in Practice (June 22, 2018). Discovery Economics, 1 (1), pp. 78-108., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3207803
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R V Aguilera , K A Desender , L R &amp;kabbach De Castro
A Bundle Perspective to Comparative Corporate Governance
The SAGE a121aa8abd95 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C Durden , R &amp;pech
The increasing cost of corporate governance: decision speed-bumps for managers. Corporate Governance: The international journal of business in society , volume 6 , p. 84 - 95 Posted: 2006
F R Edwards
Corporate Governance: What Went Wrong and Can It Be Fixed
Market Discipline Across Countries and Industries , p. 237 - 253 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
288
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,105
RANK
241,819
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies