Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Societal Trust and Corporate Tax Avoidance

Review of Accounting Studies, Volume 23, Issue 4, pp. 1588-1628.

56 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2018 Last revised: 9 Sep 2022

Kiridaran (Giri) Kanagaretnam

York University - Schulich School of Business

Jimmy Lee

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Chee Yeow Lim

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Date Written: June 6, 2018

Abstract

Using an international sample of firms from 25 countries and a country-level index for societal trust, we document that societal trust is negatively associated with tax avoidance, even after controlling for other institutional determinants such as home country legal institutions and tax system characteristics. We explore the effects of two country-level institutional characteristics — strength of legal institutions and capital market pressure — on the relation between societal trust and tax avoidance. We predict and find that the relation between trust and tax avoidance is less pronounced when the legal institutions in a country are stronger, and is more pronounced when the capital market pressure is stronger. Finally, we examine the relation between societal trust and tax evasion, an extreme and illegal form of tax avoidance. We show that societal trust is negatively related to tax evasion, and the negative relation is less pronounced when legal institutions are stronger.

Keywords: Societal Trust; Tax Avoidance, Tax evasion, Legal institutions, Capital market pressure

JEL Classification: H26, G28, O16

Suggested Citation:

Kanagaretnam, Kiridaran and Lee, Jimmy and Lim, Chee Yeow and Lobo, Gerald J., Societal Trust and Corporate Tax Avoidance (June 6, 2018). Review of Accounting Studies, Volume 23, Issue 4, pp. 1588-1628. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3207031
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
335
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,432
RANK
205,502
42 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies