Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Venture Capital Ownership as a Contingent Resource: How Owner/Firm Fit Influences IPO Outcomes

Lungeanu, R., & Zajac, E. J. (2016). Venture Capital Ownership as a Contingent Resource: How Owner–Firm Fit Influences IPO Outcomes. Academy of Management Journal, 59(3), 930-955.

46 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2018

Razvan Lungeanu

Northeastern University (USA)

Edward J. Zajac

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Business

Date Written: January 4, 2014

Abstract

This study seeks to contribute to the literature on corporate ownership and firm performance by advancing an expertise-based perspective that views owners as a contingent resource. Specifically, we propose that heterogeneous prior experiences of corporate owners creates identifiable differences in owner expertise, and that these differences in expertise, when matched appropriately and dynamically to firms’ specific strategic needs, will be a source of value over the life cycle of a firm. We draw from the venture capital (VC) context to identify ex ante the meaningful differences in owner expertise, as well as the firm-specific situations for which we believe a dynamic fit/misfit would exist between VC owners and these private firms. We test and find support for our predictions regarding the performance benefits of dynamically well-matched owners and firms using an extensive longitudinal dataset of the population of U.S. private firms seeking to go public from 1997 to 2004 and their VC owners. We discuss the implications of our approach as they relate to future research opportunities across the corporate governance, strategy, and entrepreneurship literatures.

Keywords: Venture Capital Expertise, IPO, Contingency Theory

Suggested Citation:

Lungeanu, Razvan and Zajac, Edward J., Venture Capital Ownership as a Contingent Resource: How Owner/Firm Fit Influences IPO Outcomes (January 4, 2014). Lungeanu, R., & Zajac, E. J. (2016). Venture Capital Ownership as a Contingent Resource: How Owner–Firm Fit Influences IPO Outcomes. Academy of Management Journal, 59(3), 930-955., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3208383 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3208383
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,672
RANK
531,260
3 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies