Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Diversification, Managerial Expansion, Firm Liquidity and Operating Performance: The Role of Segment Disclosure

Posted: 27 Jul 2018

Kingsley O. Olibe

Kansas State University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 5, 2018

Abstract

We investigate the association between corporate international diversification and operating and market performance and firm spread (liquidity). We find, as expected, that foreign fixed assets of US firms are significantly and positively related to firm performance as measured by operating income, cash from operations, and liquidity. This evidence suggests that corporate international diversification reflects a unique dimension that is incremental to operating and market performance. Foreign fixed assets also are significantly and positively related to prices and returns, suggesting that foreign investments are wealth changing corporate decision. This finding not only complements our operating performance results and price regressions findings, but also suggests that a portion of US firms’ investment abroad is timely. Our inferences are robust to change specifications and controlling for previously identified determinants of spread, operating and market performance. Our price and return results suggest that investors incorporate geographic segmental assets data in their valuation model. Extending the analysis on partition sample — high versus low leverage firms, we document that both foreign assets of high and low leverage firms are significantly positively associated with share price and the coefficient on high leverage firms is significantly larger than the coefficient on low leverage firms.

Keywords: corporate diversification; firm spread (liquidity); managerial expansion; operating and; market performance

JEL Classification: M4; G15; G18

Suggested Citation:

Olibe, Kingsley O., Corporate Diversification, Managerial Expansion, Firm Liquidity and Operating Performance: The Role of Segment Disclosure (July 5, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3209043
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
922
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies