Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm- and Country-Level Antecedents of Corporate Governance Compliance and Disclosure in MENA Countries

Sarhan, A.A. and Ntim, C.G. (2018). ‘Firm- and Country-Level Antecedents of Voluntary Disclosure in MENA Countries’, Managerial Auditing Journal, Forthcoming.

43 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2018

Ahmed Sarhan

Northumbria University

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Date Written: July 7, 2018

Abstract

Purpose – This paper investigates the level of compliance with, and disclosure of, corporate governance best practice recommendations, and the firm- and country-level factors that can explain discernible differences in the level of compliance with, and disclosure of, corporate governance best practice recommendations in a number of Middle Eastern and North African (MENA) countries.

Design/methodology/approach – We use the widely employed content analysis technique to examine the level of compliance with, and disclosure of, corporate governance best practice recommendations in a sample of listed corporations in MENA countries. In addition, we employ the ordinary least square multiple regression analysis technique to examine the firm- and country-level antecedents of the level of compliance with, and disclosure of, corporate governance best practice recommendations. The findings are generally robust to different types of firm- and country-level factors, alternative measures and potential endogeneity problems.

Findings – The findings of this study are two-fold. First, the level of voluntary compliance with, and disclosure of, corporate governance best practice recommendations among MENA listed corporations is low and differs substantially across firms. Second, our evidence suggests that firm- and country-level factors, including religiosity, national governance quality and macroeconomic factors have a positive and significant impact on voluntary compliance with, and disclosure of, corporate governance best practice recommendations.

Originality/value – To the best of our knowledge, this paper is the first to examine both the potential firm- and country-level factors affecting voluntary compliance with, and disclosure of, corporate governance best practice recommendations among MENA listed corporations within a neo-institutional theoretical perspective. The results of our study provide regulators and policy-makers with the impetus to encourage greater efforts towards pursuing reforms that seek to improve national governance quality, economic environment and positive religious practices.

Keywords: Corporate Governance Disclosure, Firm and National Governance Quality, Religiosity, Macroeconomic Factors, MENA Countries, Neo-Institutional Theory

JEL Classification: G38

Suggested Citation:

Sarhan, Ahmed and Ntim, Collins G., Firm- and Country-Level Antecedents of Corporate Governance Compliance and Disclosure in MENA Countries (July 7, 2018). Sarhan, A.A. and Ntim, C.G. (2018). ‘Firm- and Country-Level Antecedents of Voluntary Disclosure in MENA Countries’, Managerial Auditing Journal, Forthcoming. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3209670
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
M Bhatti , M I Bhatti
Toward understanding Islamic corporate governance issues in Islamic finance
Asian Politics & Policy , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 38 Posted: 2010
Crossref
N D Bishara
Governance and corruption constraints in the Middle East: Overcoming the business ethics glass ceiling
American Business Law Journal , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 227 - 283 Posted: 2011
Crossref
B S Black , H Jang , W Kim
Does corporate governance predict firms' market values? Evidence from Korea
Economics, and Organization , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 366 - 413 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S Bose , H Z Khan , A Rashid , S Islam
What drives green banking disclosure? An institutional and corporate governance perspective
Asia Pacific Journal of Management Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,219
RANK
730,194
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies