Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Damage Control: Changes in Disclosure Tone after Financial Misconduct

58 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2018

Rebecca Files

Baylor University

Alex Holcomb

Appalachian State University

Gerald S. Martin

American University - Kogod School of Business

Paul Mason

Baylor University

Date Written: July 6, 2018

Abstract

This paper examines whether managers attempt to mitigate the negative outcomes of financial misconduct by altering the tone of required disclosures. Using a series of difference-in-differences analyses, we show that following fraudulent activity, managers use more negative and litigious words in disclosures, as compared to a matched sample of control firms. We find managers that have a larger set of negative outcomes, such as those with foreknowledge of the fraud committed, are more aggressive in altering disclosure when compared to peer firms. Our results also suggest that negative outcomes due to financial misconduct, such as monetary fines and reputation loss, are mitigated by altering the tone in financial disclosures. Altogether, we conclude that managers alter disclosures to reduce the set of negative outcomes they face following securities law violations.

Keywords: Disclosure, Tone, Securities and Exchange Commission, Fraud, Reputation

JEL Classification: G38, K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Files, Rebecca and Holcomb, Alex and Martin, Gerald S. and Mason, Paul, Damage Control: Changes in Disclosure Tone after Financial Misconduct (July 6, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3209501 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3209501
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
R C Anderson , G S Martin , D M Reeb
Financial misconduct and family firms. Working paper Posted: 2017
Stephen P. Baginski , Sean T. McGuire , Nathan Y. Sharp , Brady J. Twedt
Changes in Managers’ Forecasting Behavior and the Market’s Assessment of Forecast Credibility during Periods of Financial Misreporting
Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 15-80 Pages: 58 Posted: 30 Aug 2011 Last revised: 30 Nov 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
L S Bamber , J Jiang , I Y Wang
What's my style? The influence of top managers on voluntary corporate financial disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Mary Brooke Billings , Matthew C. Cedergren , Svenja Dube
Does Litigation Change Managers’ Beliefs About the Value of Voluntarily Disclosing Bad News?
Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming Pages: 53 Posted: 29 Jan 2016 Last revised: 11 Jan 2021
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
261
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,562
RANK
267,591
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies