Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Compensation and Earnings Sensitivity: A Perspective from CEO Duality

Global Journal of Business Research, v. 12 (1) p. 1-13 (2018)

13 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2019

I-Hsin Chien

Providence University (Taiwan)

Yu-Ju Chen

National Changhua University of Education, Taiwan

Tsun-Jui Hsieh

Providence University (Taiwan)

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

The design of chief-executive-officer (CEO) compensation influences a CEO’s decisions and the degree to which the company in question values foreign and domestic earnings. This study explores how CEO compensation structure influences foreign and domestic earnings. This study investigates 1,393 listed and over-the-counter companies from 2001 to 2004. The results show that when a CEO also serves as the chairperson of the board of directors, the design of CEO compensation does not assign high weighting to foreign earnings. By contrast, when a CEO is not the chairperson of the board of directors, the design of CEO compensation assigns significantly high weighting to foreign earnings. This research is one of the few studies that explore the influence of a CEO who also serves as the chairperson of the board of directors on CEO compensation composition. The findings reveal that agency problems due to a CEO also serving as the chairperson of the board of directors may influence the importance of foreign earnings in relation to CEO compensation. This study substantially contributes to the fields of corporate governance and earnings management.

Keywords: CEO Compensation, CEO Duality, Earnings Sensitivity, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: M41 M52

Suggested Citation:

Chien, I-Hsin and Chen, Yu-Ju and Hsieh, Tsun-Jui, CEO Compensation and Earnings Sensitivity: A Perspective from CEO Duality (2018). Global Journal of Business Research, v. 12 (1) p. 1-13 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3209512
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,072
RANK
576,053
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies