Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Payday Before Mayday: CEO Compensation Contracting for Distressed Firms

62 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2020 Last revised: 29 Apr 2020

Mary Ellen Carter

Boston College - Department of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Edith S. Hotchkiss

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Mahdi Mohseni

Securities and Exchange Commission

Date Written: April 28, 2020

Abstract

Using a sample of more than 1,500 US public firms in the period 1998-2016, we examine how firms endogenously adjust CEO compensation contracts when they become financially distressed. The link between compensation and equity-based measures of firm performance is positive and strong prior to distress, but declines and becomes insignificant when firms are in distress. However, the relationship of pay to cash flow performance remains positive for distressed firms. Directly examining the ex-ante incentives provided in contracts rather than ex-post payouts, we provide evidence that firms respond to the onset of distress by providing incentives oriented toward improving cash flows. Specifically, distressed firms increase their use of performance-based pay but re-orient performance metrics towards cash flow related measures and set performance targets farther above prior performance. Further, these firms reduce equity-oriented incentives by increasing the proportion of expected performance-based compensation to be paid in cash rather than stock. These changes are economically most important for firms with the greatest need to replace out-of-the-money equity-based incentives, and in the years immediately preceding an actual default or bankruptcy. Overall, our findings are consistent with agency theory predicting that reduced incentives require contract realignment of managers with relevant stakeholders of distressed firms.

Keywords: CEO Compensation, Managerial Incentives, Contracting, Financial Distress, Default, Creditors, Pay-performance Sensitivity

JEL Classification: G33, G34, J33, M12, M52, M41

Suggested Citation:

Carter, Mary Ellen and Hotchkiss, Edith S. and Mohseni, Mahdi, Payday Before Mayday: CEO Compensation Contracting for Distressed Firms (April 28, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3211591 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3211591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Brian K. Akins , Jonathan Bitting , David De Angelis , Maclean Gaulin
CEO Short-Term Incentives and the Agency Cost of Debt
75 Pages · Posted: 15 May 2017 · Last revised: 11 Oct 2024 · Downloads: 830
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Vladimir A. Atanasov , Dirk E. Black , Maria Boutchkova
Striking Oil in the Boardroom: Overpaying Executives through Manipulating Performance Metrics
110 Pages · Posted: 10 Jun 2020 · Last revised: 29 Aug 2025 · Downloads: 376
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
515
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,049
RANK
125,072
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies