Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Positive Contribution Of the Good Corporate Governance Rating To Stability and Performance: Evidence from Indonesia

Problems and Perspectives in Management, Volume 16, Issue 2, 2018

12 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2018

R. R. Iramani

STIE Perbanas Surabaya

Abdul Mongid

STIE Perbanas Surabaya - Banking Department

Muazaroh Muazaroh

Perbanas Institute

Date Written: MAY 10, 2018

Abstract

This paper aims to examine the impact of Good Corporate Governance (GCG) practice on bank stability and performance. Governance is measured using the GCG rating that covers eleven aspects. The authors apply instrumental regression to link governance to performance and stability. The study covers a sample of 150 banks. The result shows that bank stability can mediate bank governance and bank performance. On the determinant of bank performance, it can be concluded that the GCG rating is positive and directly influences bank performance. Bank stability is also positive for bank performance indicating the indirect contribution of the GCG rating to bank performance. NPL, LDR, CAR and bank’s size (LASSET) are all negative and significant. The aim of this paper is to provide strong empirical evidence on the importance of governance and stability for performance. The limitations of this paper are the size of the sample and that it only covers public banks which are theoretically required to apply better governance in all aspects of their business by the Capital Market Authority.

Suggested Citation:

Iramani, R. R. and Mongid, Abdul and Muazaroh, Muazaroh, Positive Contribution Of the Good Corporate Governance Rating To Stability and Performance: Evidence from Indonesia (MAY 10, 2018). Problems and Perspectives in Management, Volume 16, Issue 2, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3211374
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
V Aebi , G Sabato , M Schmid
Risk Management, Corporate Governance, and Bank Performance in the Financial Crisis
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 36 , issue 12 , p. 3213 - 3226 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision: Corporate governance principles for banks
BCBS Posted: 2015
Bank Indonesia
Circular Letter on GCG Implementation Posted: 2013
A Beltratti , R M Stulz
The credit crisis around the globe: Why did some banks perform better
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,323
RANK
541,838
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies