Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Annual Report Descriptions of Business Model and Strategy, Investor Uncertainty, and Disclosure Cascade Effects

81 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2018 Last revised: 7 Feb 2022

Vasiliki E. Athanasakou

Saint Mary's University, Canada - Sobey School of Business

Martin Walker

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Steven Young

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Paulo Alves

Universidade Católica Portuguesa, Católica Porto Business School; Lancaster University Management School - ICRA

Mahmoud El-Haj

Lancaster University - School of Computing and Communications; Lancaster University

Paul Rayson

Lancaster University

Date Written: February 6, 2022

Abstract

Policymakers view commentary on business model and strategy (BMS) as a central pillar of effective corporate reporting. We examine the impact of mandatory annual report BMS disclosure on two aspects of firms’ information environment: investor uncertainty and provision of (voluntary) BMS-related content in timelier communication channels. We use for identification the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 de facto BMS reporting mandate for a subset of London Stock Exchange firms. We confirm that BMS disclosure increased in response to the mandate. In response, we predict and find a material treatment period decline in investor uncertainty, together with increases in investor presentations and BMS-related disclosure in earnings press releases. A structural model reveals that earnings releases and investor presentations mediate the link from annual report BMS disclosures to lower investor uncertainty.

Keywords: Strategy, Annual Report Narratives, Textual Analysis, Information Asymmetry

JEL Classification: M41, M21, D89

Suggested Citation:

Athanasakou, Vasiliki E. and Walker, Martin and Young, Steven and Alves, Paulo and El-Haj, Mahmoud and Rayson, Paul, Mandatory Annual Report Descriptions of Business Model and Strategy, Investor Uncertainty, and Disclosure Cascade Effects (February 6, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3212854 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3212854
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
A Abadie , J Gardeazabal
The economic costs of conflict: A case study of the Basque Country
American Economic Review , volume 93 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 132 Posted: 2003
Eurosif Acca
What do investors expect from non
Reporting Statement: Operating and Financial Review Posted: 2006
D Altschuler , G Chen , J Zhou
Anticipation of management forecasts and analysts' private information search
Review of Accounting Research , volume 20 , p. 803 - 838 Posted: 2015
S Baginski , S Bozzolan , A Marra , P Mazzola
Strategy, valuation, and forecast accuracy: Evidence from Italian strategic plan disclosures
European Accounting Review , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 341 - 378 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
608
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,887
RANK
101,424
2 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies