Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blame Attribution and Disclosure Propensity

The Accounting Review, forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2018 Last revised: 19 Oct 2020

Jason D. Schloetzer

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Ayung Tseng

UC Davis, Graduate School of Management

Teri Lombardi Yohn

Emory University Goizueta Business School

Johnny (Yeo Sang) Yoon

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Carlson School of Management

Date Written: August 15, 2020

Abstract

We hypothesize that firms are less likely to disclose information regarding a material negative economic event for which the firm is likely to be blamed than for a negative economic event for which the firm is likely to be perceived as blameless. We identify 383 material negative economic events (casualty accidents, oil spills, catastrophes, investor class action lawsuits) and find thatfirms are approximately four times less likely to disclose information following a negative blamed event than for a negative blameless event. Consistent with the assertion underlying our hypothesisthat disclosure of a blamed event increases the firm’s reputation and litigation risks, we find that firms that disclose after a blamed event, but not a blameless event, experience greater reputation and litigation costs than firms that do not disclose. We also find that blame attribution provides incremental information over manager career concerns in the disclosure decision. These findings suggest that an event-specific factor—blame attribution—affects firms’ propensity to provide disclosures about material negative economic events.

Keywords: economic event, voluntary disclosure, blame, litigation risk, firm reputation

JEL Classification: K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Schloetzer, Jason D. and Tseng, Ayung and Yohn, Teri Lombardi and Yoon, Johnny (Yeo Sang), Blame Attribution and Disclosure Propensity (August 15, 2020). The Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3212756 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3212756
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
816
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,957
RANK
69,192
4 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies