Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring Social Origins in the Construction of ESG Measures

36 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2018 Last revised: 2 Dec 2020

Robert G. Eccles

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Judith C. Stroehle

University of St Gallen

Date Written: July 12, 2018

Abstract

As both demand and supply for information about companies’ sustainability performance continues to grow, many investors complain that the ESG data universe is getting too complex and confusing. Several studies have shown how rating agencies and data vendors display very little agreement on how to construct and use ESG measures. While commending these findings, we argue that only studying how data diverges is missing the insights of a more substantial question about the why of this divergence. Taking a lens of “social construction”, we thus set out to explore the differences between ESG measures as a function of (a) data vendors’ diverse social origins and (b) their necessity to create a unique profile in a maturing market. Examining five cases of eight interconnected ESG data vendors and rating agencies, we thus show how the origin of each company (their founding principles, legal status, purpose, etc.) strongly influences its conception of sustainability, definition of materiality, and by extension, the way ESG issues are measured and sold. We find that data vendors can be characterized into groups of value-vs values-based organizations, and that dynamics of consolidation on the ESG market and the mainstreaming of ESG data use are linked to a shift from values-to value-driven investors in the ESG space. Finally, the paper highlights pathways into a new ESG research agenda which explores the impact of the here examined origins of metrics.

Keywords: ESG, Social Construction, Data Vendors, Non-Financial Measurement

Suggested Citation:

Eccles, Robert G. and Stroehle, Judith, Exploring Social Origins in the Construction of ESG Measures (July 12, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3212685 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3212685
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and How Investors Use ESG Information: Evidence from a Global Survey
In: Financial Analysts Journal, Third Quarter , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Arista Standard
Arista Standard 3.0: Oekom Transparency matrix Posted: 2015-04
Arista Standard
Arista Standard 3.0: Vigeo Transparency matrix Posted: 2015
0tm2015 , Pdf
Posted: 2018-04
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
11,256
ABSTRACT VIEWS
29,568
RANK
1,064
16 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies