Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Control Benefits and Takeover Market Efficiency

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming

67 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2018 Last revised: 18 Aug 2019

Wenyu Wang

Vanderbilt University - Finance Department; Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Finance

Yufeng Wu

Ohio State University (OSU)

Date Written: August 1, 2019

Abstract

How and to what extent do managerial control benefits shape the efficiency of the takeover market? We revisit this question by estimating both the dark and bright sides of managerial control benefits in an industry equilibrium model. On the dark side, managers’ private benefits of control distort firms’ takeover incentives and hinder the reallocation role of the takeover market. On the bright side, fear of a takeover induces underperforming managers to exert more effort and enhances the disciplinary role of the takeover market. Our estimates suggest that the bright-side effect increases the value created by an active takeover market by 21%, comparable in magnitude to the dark-side effect. It is also important to account for this bright-side effect in explaining certain features of the takeover market, including a low takeover-performance sensitivity.

Keywords: mergers and acquisitions, private benefits of control, structural estimation

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Wenyu and Wu, Yufeng, Managerial Control Benefits and Takeover Market Efficiency (August 1, 2019). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3213483 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3213483
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
K R Ahern
Bargaining power and industry dependence in mergers
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 103 , p. 530 - 550 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R Albuquerque , E Schroth
Quantifying private benefits of control from a structural model of block trades
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 96 , p. 33 - 55 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Albuquerque , E Schroth
The value of control and the costs of illiquidity
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , p. 1405 - 1455 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Alti
How sensitive is investment to cash flow when financing is frictionless?
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 707 - 722 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
516
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,676
RANK
124,786
2 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies