Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Moderating Role of CEO Sustainability Reporting Style in the Relationship between Sustainability Performance, Sustainability Reporting, and Cost of Equity

Journal of Business Economics

Posted: 4 Aug 2018 Last revised: 22 Mar 2022

Kerstin Lopatta

University of Hamburg - Faculty of Business, Economics, and Social Sciences

Thomas Kaspereit

Universite du Luxembourg

Sebastian A. Tideman-Frappart

Syracuse University

Anna Rudolf

University of Hamburg

Date Written: March 21, 2022

Abstract

This paper explores the role of individual managers in the relationship between sustainability performance, sustainability reporting, and cost of equity. Based on prior research showing that both sustainability performance and reporting reduce the risk premium, this paper contributes to the literature by acknowledging that the true motives behind a manager’s corporate sustainability engagement are not apparent to investors. Thus, investors need to rely on further information to assess the relationship between sustainability performance and risk. We argue that CEOs’ values and preferences drive their decisions regarding sustainability activities. Thus, their fixed effect on sustainability reporting conveys a signal to investors about the motives behind corporate sustainability engagement and the extent of reporting. In the first step of our empirical analysis, we document that a CEO’s specific reporting style indeed has significant statistical power in explaining a company’s level of sustainability reporting. In the second step, we find that improved sustainability performance is associated with increased cost of equity when the CEO exerts a strong personal influence on sustainability reporting. However, cost of equity declines if the CEO’s influence on the reporting of improved sustainability performance is low. Our results are consistent with the argument that investors interpret CEO’s fixed-effect on sustainability reporting as a signal. That is, for a high CEO fixed-effect, increases in sustainability engagement are conflated with the CEO's self-interested values. In further tests, we show that the signal seems to be particularly important for normative sustainability activities (vs. legal sustainability activities).

Keywords: CEOs’ Style, Sustainability Reporting, Sustainability Reporting Score, CEOs’ Sustainability Reporting Style, Sustainability Performance, CEO Fixed Effects, CFO Fixed Effects, Cost of Equity Capital, CEO-Firm Matched Panel Analysis

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49, M50, M51, Q56, Q59

Suggested Citation:

Lopatta, Kerstin and Kaspereit, Thomas and Tideman-Frappart, Sebastian A. and Rudolf, Anna, The Moderating Role of CEO Sustainability Reporting Style in the Relationship between Sustainability Performance, Sustainability Reporting, and Cost of Equity (March 21, 2022). Journal of Business Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3214321
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,421
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies