Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Related Party Transaction and Cost of Debt

Posted: 3 Aug 2018

Ahmed Al-Hadi

Sultan Qaboos University - Accounting; Curtin University - School of Accounting; Sultan Qaboos University - College of Economics & Political Science

Baban Eulaiwi

Curtin University - School of Accounting

Grantley Taylor

Curtin University - School of Accounting

Date Written: July 15, 2018

Abstract

We investigate whether the firms that use of Related Party Transactions (RPT) is priced by the GCC lenders. RPTs can be used as tunneling mechanism by transferring the resources out of the firm, or can be used as a propping mechanism during the crisis, distress or to meet the targeted performance. We find that credit transactions of the related parties’ increases firms’ cost of debt due to tunneling effects, while increased related party sales based transactions show no effects of firms’ cost of debt. We then investigate three types of ownership’s characterises as channels which effect this association. First, we find the firms that are found by family and, and are leaded by a CEO and chairperson from the same family or tribe both are positively mediating the association between credit transactions of related party and cost of debt. Second, the royal family ownership is negatively mediating the association. Our results are robust to several additional tests and measurement specifications including Propensity Match Scoring, 2SLS, and Sobel Test.

Keywords: Related Party Transaction, Cost of Debt, Gulf Corporation Council

JEL Classification: M41, G32

Suggested Citation:

Al-Hadi, Ahmed and Eulaiwi, Baban and Taylor, Grantley, Related Party Transaction and Cost of Debt (July 15, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3214256
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,654
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies