Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are CFOs Effective Operators? An Empirical Analysis of CFO/COO Duality

Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming (doi.org/10.2308/jmar-52168)

Posted: 7 Aug 2018

Steve Buchheit

University of Alabama

Austin L. Reitenga

University of Alabama

George W. Ruch

University of Denver - School of Accountancy

Daniel Street

Bucknell University

Date Written: June 21, 2018

Abstract

While the popular press has documented Chief Financial Officer (CFO) role expansion into traditional operations functions, recent research suggests that time spent on non-core CFO activities harms financial reporting quality. We examine the operational acumen of CFOs and the potential negative reporting consequences stemming from one person simultaneously holding the role of CFO and Chief Operations Officer (COO); henceforth, “CFO/COO duality”. Empirically, CFO/COO duality occurs with increasing frequency during our sample period (2000 through 2016) and duality is not uncommon (among firms with a COO, over 10% have a unified CFO/COO executive). We find no evidence that combining the CFO and COO positions adversely affects operations. Regarding financial reporting quality, we find some evidence that CFO/COO duality firms have relatively more volatile discretionary accruals; however, these accruals are also relatively more predictive of future cash flows. Collectively, our results suggest that unifying control of operations and reporting can be an effective corporate reconfiguration.

Suggested Citation:

Buchheit, Steve and Reitenga, Austin L. and Ruch, George W. and Street, Daniel, Are CFOs Effective Operators? An Empirical Analysis of CFO/COO Duality (June 21, 2018). Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming (doi.org/10.2308/jmar-52168), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3215426
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,386
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies