Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Summarizing Articles About Corporate Governance Practice in Listed Companies in Bahrain

9 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2018

Fatima Haji

Ahlia University

Date Written: May 6, 2018

Abstract

Corporate governance is developing rapidly in many countries across the world. This project will evaluate the compliance level of companies listed in Bahrain stock exchange with the corporate governance code of the country by take in concern four factors, which are the separation of the chairman from the executive level in the organization, number of independent directors in the board, availability of internal audit department and number of board members. It’s found that 100% of the companies are in compliance with maximum number of board members requested by the code (15 members); also the majority of the companies have internal audit departments. Moreover, it’s found that 60% of the companies are applied the separation concept and their most of the board members are independent directors. As a result, it’s obvious that the Bahraini listed companies have a good compliance level with corporate governance code but its need some improvements that will be discussed in the project.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Compliance, Stock Exchange, Board Members

Suggested Citation:

Haji, Fatima, Summarizing Articles About Corporate Governance Practice in Listed Companies in Bahrain (May 6, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3215373 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3215373
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Mathew Adomadu-Amoah , Joseph Tsamenyi , Mensahonumah
Corporate Governance in Less Developed and Emerging Economies Posted: 2008
Abdalmuttaleb Al-Sartawi , Zakeya Sanad
The Effect of Corporate Governance on Stock performance: Evidence from Bahrain. 6th Global Islamic Marketing Conference , p. 6 - 8 Posted: 2015
May
International Islamic Marketing Association
Al-Sartawi , Fatema Abdalmuttaleb , Zakeya Alrawahi , Sanad
Corporate Governance and the Level of Compliance with International Accounting Standards (IAS-1): Evidence from Bahrain Bourse
International Research Journal of Finance and Economics , volume 157 , p. 110 - 122 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,347
RANK
672,649
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies