Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Environmental Disclosure, Corporate Governance and Firm Characteristics: Evidence from Polluting and Non-Polluting Sectors in India

The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XVI, No. 3, July 2017, pp. 26-53

Posted: 6 Aug 2018

Santanu Kumar Ghosh

University of Burdwan, India

Abhijit Roy

International Management Institute - Kolkata

Date Written: July 17, 2017

Abstract

Corporate environmentalism is an aspect of good corporate citizenship that revolves around the concept of sustainability. This study examines the determinants of corporate environmental responsibility and the economic benefits attached to it. The study focuses on the disclosure aspect of corporate environmentalism and how corporate governance practices of companies from polluting as well as non-polluting industries in India influence the voluntary environmental disclosure quality. The findings reveal significant impact of ownership concentration and public shareholding on voluntary environmental disclosures, but independent directors are found to have no impact on voluntary environmental disclosures in both polluting and non-polluting industries.

Suggested Citation:

Ghosh, Santanu Kumar and Roy, Abhijit, Corporate Environmental Disclosure, Corporate Governance and Firm Characteristics: Evidence from Polluting and Non-Polluting Sectors in India (July 17, 2017). The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XVI, No. 3, July 2017, pp. 26-53, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3215152
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
901
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies