Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Selection of Directors to Corporate Boards

31st Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2018

40 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2018

David J. Denis

University of Pittsburgh

Diane K. Denis

University of Pittsburgh - Katz School of Business

Mark D. Walker

North Carolina State University

Date Written: July , 2018

Abstract

Corporate spinoffs present a unique opportunity to analyze the choice of directors from a pool of potential candidates. We find that post-spinoff unit and remaining parent firms are more likely to select pre-spinoff parent directors who have: i) relevant industry expertise; and ii) pre-spinoff parent board ties to the post-spinoff CEO. Using pre-spinoff firm performance as a proxy for director quality, the evidence also suggests that firms are more likely to retain high-quality directors. We conclude that firms select individual directors based on both their expertise relevant to firm assets and their ties to CEOs who possess specific information about their ability.

Keywords: Board of directors, Spinoffs, Governance

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Denis, David J. and Denis, Diane K. and Walker, Mark D., The Selection of Directors to Corporate Boards (July , 2018). 31st Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3215474 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3215474
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
R Adams , A Akyol , Verwijmeren
Director skill sets, Working paper Posted: 2017
A Agrawal , C Knoeber
Do some outside directors play a political role
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 44 , p. 179 - 198 Posted: 2001
Crossref
A Boone , L Field , J Karpoff , C Raheja
The determinants of corporate board size and composition: An empirical analysis
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 85 , p. 66 - 101 Posted: 2007
Crossref
W Bowen
The Board Book: An Insider's Guide for Directors and Trustees Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
352
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,247
RANK
194,508
2 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies