Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Ultimate Controlling Owner and Corporate Governance in Brazil

Corporate Governance (Bradford), v. 19, p. 120-140, 2018

29 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2018 Last revised: 17 Sep 2020

Vicente Lima Crisóstomo

Universidade Federal do Ceará

Isac de Freitas Brandão

Instituto Federal de Educação, Ciência e Tecnologia do Ceará

Date Written: July 18, 2018

Abstract

High ownership concentration makes controlling blockholders powerful enough to use private benefits of control and able to shape the corporate governance system to favor their own interests. This work aims to examine whether the nature of the ultimate firm owner affects the quality of corporate governance in Brazil. Econometric models are estimated to assess the effect of the nature of the ultimate controlling shareholder on the quality of the corporate governance system. Models are estimated using panel data methodology with coefficients estimated by the Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) system estimator. Results show that the absence of a controlling shareholder has a positive effect on corporate governance whereas the presence of a controlling blockholder, or a shareholder agreement among a few large shareholders, has a negative effect. This adverse effect holds when the controlling blockholder is a family, or another firm. The findings are in line with the expropriation effect given that weaker corporate governance system facilitates controlling shareholders ability to extract private benefits of control. The findings also give support to the substitution effect since powerful blockholders take on the management monitoring function by weakening the board. The work provides additional evidence on the effect of the nature of large controlling shareholders on the quality of the corporate governance system in Brazil, taking into account the main kinds of controlling blockholders present in that market. The findings give support to both the expropriation and substitution hypotheses highlighting the presence of the principal–principal agency model in an important emerging market, Brazil.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Nature of Ultimate Shareholder, Agency Theory, Brazil

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Crisóstomo, Vicente Lima and Brandão, Isac, The Ultimate Controlling Owner and Corporate Governance in Brazil (July 18, 2018). Corporate Governance (Bradford), v. 19, p. 120-140, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3216179 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3216179
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
R V Aguilera , K A Desender
Challenges in the Measuring of Comparative Corporate Governance: A Review of the Main Indices
Research Methodology in Strategy and Management , volume 8 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R V Aguilera
A Bundle Perspective to Comparative Corporate Governance , p. 379 - 405 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
The cross-national diversity of corporate governance: dimensions and determinants
Academy of Management Review , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
Crossref
D M Aldrighi , R Neto
Evidências sobre as estruturas de propriedade de capital e de voto das empresas de capital aberto no Brasil
Revista Brasileira de Economia , volume 61 , issue 2 , p. 129 - 152 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,910
RANK
322,813
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies