Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Cooperation and Foreign Portfolio Investment

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming

Ross School of Business Paper No. 1385

Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 18-38

30 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2018 Last revised: 6 Oct 2019

Mark H. Lang

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Mark G. Maffett

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

James D. Omartian

University of Michigan - Ross School of Business

Roger Silvers

University of Utah; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: September 30, 2019

Abstract

We investigate the effect of cross-border regulatory cooperation in the enforcement of securities laws on global-mutual-fund portfolio allocations. Our research design exploits a shock to the Securities and Exchange Commission's oversight of foreign firms cross-listed on a US stock exchange around the signing of the Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding (MMoU), a non-binding, information-sharing arrangement between global securities regulators. In signatory countries, foreign investment in US-cross-listed firms increases by $110 billion relative to non-cross-listed firms. The strongest effects are for investors facing greater information asymmetries, those from countries closely linked to the US, and non-US foreign investors, suggesting significant spillover effects from international regulatory cooperation.

Keywords: Securities regulation, Foreign portfolio investment, Regulatory bonding

JEL Classification: G11, G15, G18

Suggested Citation:

Lang, Mark H. and Maffett, Mark G. and Omartian, James D. and Silvers, Roger, Regulatory Cooperation and Foreign Portfolio Investment (September 30, 2019). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, Ross School of Business Paper No. 1385, Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 18-38, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3217447 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3217447
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
P Aghion , Y Algan , P Cahuc , A Shleifer
Regulation and distrust
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 125 , p. 1015 - 1049 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Albuquerque , G H Bauer , M Schneider
Global private information in international equity markets
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 18 - 46 Posted: 2009
Crossref
K.-H Bae , R M Stulz , H Tan
Do local analysts know more? A cross-country study of the performance of local analysts and foreign analysts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 88 , p. 581 - 606 Posted: 2008
Crossref
B Baik , J.-K Kang , J.-M Kim
Local institutional investors, information asymmetries, and equity returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 97 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
401
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,072
RANK
168,133
21 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies