Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board of Directors' Sanction Judgments: The Effect of Situational Factors.

Forthcoming, Wall, J. and Gissel, J. (2019). Board of Directors' Sanction Judgments: The Effect of Situational Factors. Journal of Managerial Issues.

Posted: 8 Aug 2018

Joseph Wall

Marquette University

Jodi L. Gissel

University of Wisconsin - Whitewater

Date Written: April 18, 2018

Abstract

This study investigated the influence of situational factors on sanction judgments by individuals who serve on boards of directors. Members of the board of directors often guide control processes, including sanction guidance for internal and external rules violations. This study is the first to investigate the decisions of such members in this context in the presence of mitigating circumstances. Based on evolutionary governance theory and punishment theory regarding deterrence and retribution, as well as literature on the role empathy can play in judgments, an experiment was designed to analyze how variation in three factors (history of similar incidents, compensation structure, and reason for violation) impacts directors’ sanction recommendations. Findings suggest board members focused on history of violations (repeat or first-time offender) and were not influenced by whether the individual received financial benefit (in terms of compensation structure) or by empathetic situations (altruistic versus opportunistic motivation for the act). This holds true for both sanction type and amount of monetary sanction. Participants emphasized warning and fine sanctions, with warning more likely for a first-time offender and fine more likely for a repeat offender. Implications for boards relating to punishment guidance are discussed, as well as recommendations for future research building on this study.

Keywords: board of directors, fraud, sanctions, internal controls

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Wall, Joseph and Gissel, Jodi Lynn, Board of Directors' Sanction Judgments: The Effect of Situational Factors. (April 18, 2018). Forthcoming, Wall, J. and Gissel, J. (2019). Board of Directors' Sanction Judgments: The Effect of Situational Factors. Journal of Managerial Issues., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3217355
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
910
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies