Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
European Mega Deals During the Sixth Merger Wave. Is the Legal Origin of the Bidder and the Target a Determinant of Short-Term Investor Reaction?

European Accounting and Management Review, Vol. 4, No. 2, 29-60, May 2018

32 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2018

Monica Martinez-Blasco

IQS School of Management-Universitat Ramon Llull

Francesc Martori

Ramon Llull University - IQS School of Management

Xavier Auguets

Ramon Llull University - IQS School of Management

Date Written: March 6, 2018

Abstract

In the context of the mega merger and acquisition announcements during the sixth merger wave in Continental Europe, this paper presents an analysis of the influence of the bidder and target legal origins in the short-term reactions of the cumulative abnormal returns, the cumulative absolute abnormal returns and the volume traded. 92 bids occurred between 2003 and 2007 have studied. Our main result is a short term negative abnormal return for the bidder stockholders' firms as a consequence of the announcement, which can be mainly associated to the presence of companies whose legal origin is German. This reaction is also accompanied with a significant effect above the average level in the market volatility and the volume traded. Finally, there does not seem to be any significant different reaction depending on whether operations happen between companies from the same legal origin or from a different one.

Keywords: M&As, Mega Deals, Continental Europe, Announcement Effects, Legal Origin

Suggested Citation:

Martinez-Blasco, Monica and Martori, Francesc and Auguets, Xavier, European Mega Deals During the Sixth Merger Wave. Is the Legal Origin of the Bidder and the Target a Determinant of Short-Term Investor Reaction? (March 6, 2018). European Accounting and Management Review, Vol. 4, No. 2, 29-60, May 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3217777
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
G Alexandridis , N Antypas , N G Travlos
Value creation from M&As: New evidence
Journal of Corporate Finance Posted: 2017
Crossref
W Beaver
The information content of annual earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 67 - 92 Posted: 1968
Crossref
A Bris , C Cabolis
The value of investors protection: Firm evidence from cross-border mergers
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 605 - 648 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S J Brown , W B Warner
Using daily stock return: the case of event studies
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 31 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,166
RANK
759,678
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies