Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Alternative Approach on Family Business Definition

Posted: 9 Aug 2018

María Comino-Jurado

University of Jaén

Sonia Sánchez-Andújar

University of Jaén

Purificación Parrado-Martínez

Department of Financial Economics & Accounting. University of Jaén (Spain)

Date Written: July 24, 2018

Abstract

Despite of the extensive research developed on Family Business (FB), there is no consensus about the definition of this type of companies. The main goal of our research is to provide a simple alternative to the existent definitions of FB, without losing significant information and capturing their reliable essence. This will be a starting point to explore different financial aspects of these companies. First, using Partial Least Squares (PLS) models, we will inspect some of the main variables traditionally used to define a family company (family control structure, family management structure and family governance structure), and we will explore which of them really influence the familiness of a firm. Second, we will check whether financial behaviour of companies is due to their familiar nature, or to the contrary, they are moderated by other variables such as age or size of the firm.

Keywords: Family Business (FB), Definition, Partial Least Squares (PLS), Familiness, Financial Behaviours

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G41, M14

Suggested Citation:

Comino-Jurado, María and Sánchez-Andújar, Sonia and Parrado-Martínez, Purificación, An Alternative Approach on Family Business Definition (July 24, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3218967
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
978
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies