Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Disclosure, Compliance and Consequences: Evidence from Russia

70 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2018 Last revised: 9 Sep 2021

Suman Banerjee

Stevens Institute of Technology; Stevens Institute of Technology

Saul Estrin

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Sarmistha Pal

University of Surrey; University of Surrey; University of Surrey - Surrey Business School; University of Surrey; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 08, 2021

Abstract

Does the introduction of corporate transparency and disclosure rules affect compliance and therefore earnings quality and firm performance in emerging economies? We explore these questions for an important emerging economy, Russia, using a natural experiment, the 2002 introduction of Russian corporate governance code, to exploit the exogenous variation in voluntary disclosure. We find a significant increase in corporate disclosure among the domestic Russian firms over the period 2003-07 when firms gradually adopted some but not all disclosure rules. The immediate effect of the introduction was a drop in reported earnings. Market valuation, however, only improved for domestic firms after 2007, when all domestic firms had to comply. However, cross-listed firms, which were already satisfying international standards, remained largely unaffected. Though average compliance by domestic firms was only 53%, average firm value of treated domestic firms relative to cross-listed ones, went up by about 10%. Results are robust, confirm external validity and offer important policy implications for other emerging/ transition economies.

Keywords: Natural Experiment, 2002 Russian Corporate Governance Code, Earnings Management, Market Valuation, Difference-In-Difference Model, Domestic vs. Cross-Listed Firms, Russia

JEL Classification: G3, K2, O38

Suggested Citation:

Banerjee, Suman and Estrin, Saul and Estrin, Saul and Pal, Sarmistha, Corporate Disclosure, Compliance and Consequences: Evidence from Russia (September 08, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3218966 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3218966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,543
RANK
508,348
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies