Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Gender Diversity on Indian Firm's Financial Performance

Dankwano, R. N., & Hassan, Z. (2018). Impact of Gender Diversity on Indian firm’s Financial Performance. International Journal of Management, Accounting and Economics, 5(5), 319-341.

23 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2018

Racheal

Anglia Ruskin University - Lord Ashcroft International Business School

Zubair Hassan

International American University

Date Written: May 30, 2018

Abstract

Gender diversity has tremendously gained attention in the corporate world both among policy makers and researchers. This is because it has been believed that gender diverse board brings different perspectives of idea to the board which enhances the firm financial performance. The purpose of this research is to examine the impact of gender diversity on Indian firm’s financial performance. The research has been carried out on 21 female dominated companies (having more than 10% female director’s) and 21 male dominated companies (having less than 10% female directors) listed on Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) with total population of 220 companies spread across different industry segment from both public and private sectors. This research employed cross-sectional data for a period of 2017 and used stratified proportionate random sampling technique. The dependent variable firm financial performance adopted by the study used accounting base-return which is measure by Return on asset (ROA) and Return on equity (ROE). This study adopted an explanatory research design and secondary data was collected and analyzed through independent samples test and Group statistics using SPSS software. This research found that increasing number of female directors has a negative significant impact on ROA. Additionally, the study found increasing number of female directors has a positive significant impact on ROE. This research is limited in relying on cross-sectional data. It was recommended that future researchers should consider using longitudinal data and also investigate other variables that were not included in this study such as female CEO, women age, educational qualification of the female directors, Return on sales and net profit margin.

Keywords: Gender Diversity, Number of Female Directors, ROA, ROE

JEL Classification: M12, M16, M41, M51

Suggested Citation:

Nana Dankwano, Racheal and Hassan, Zubair, Impact of Gender Diversity on Indian Firm's Financial Performance (May 30, 2018). Dankwano, R. N., & Hassan, Z. (2018). Impact of Gender Diversity on Indian firm’s Financial Performance. International Journal of Management, Accounting and Economics, 5(5), 319-341., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3219683
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
S N Abdullah , K N Ismail
Gender, Ethnic and Age Diversity of the Boards of Large Malaysian Firms
Journal of management , volume 38 , p. 27 - 40 Posted: 2013-01-19
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in Boardroom and Their Impact on Governance and Performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
D Agyapong , S O Appiah
Effect of Gender Diversity on the Performance of Non-financial Listed Firms in Ghana
British Journal of Economics , volume 81 , issue 1 , p. 55 - 67 Posted: 2015-01-19
Crossref
D Arkkelin
Using SPSS to Understand Research and Data Analysis. Valparaiso: Valparaiso University Posted: 2014-04-24
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,009
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,842
RANK
51,714
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies