Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association Between Board Risk Oversight and the Risk of Material Misstatement

Posted: 9 Aug 2018

Mark S. Beasley

North Carolina State University

Allen D. Blay

Florida State University

Christina Lewellen

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Michelle McAllister

Northern Arizona University

Date Written: July 25, 2018

Abstract

Corporate governance failures in the early 2000s and the financial crisis that emerged in 2008 have contributed to heightened expectations for the board of directors to strengthen its oversight of the firm’s risk management processes. Thought leaders (COSO 2013, 2017, ISO 2018; NYSE 2004; SEC 2010) stress the importance of board risk oversight processes; however, we know little about what boards actually do to fulfill their risk oversight responsibilities. Most of the existing research has focused on the association between certain board of director input characteristics (e.g. member composition, independence, expertise, tenure, etc.) and a variety of financial reporting related outcomes. Studies have called for additional examination of what boards actually do to fulfill their oversight roles (e.g. Cohen, Krishnamoorthy and Wright 2017; Beasley, Carcello, Hermanson, and Neal 2009). Our study responds to this need by utilizing proxy disclosures about the board’s role in risk oversight, instituted by the SEC in 2010, to examine whether boards more engaged in risk oversight processes are associated with a lower risk of material misstatement (RMM) in the financial statements, while controlling for board input characteristics documented by prior studies. We find that boards more engaged in risk oversight are positively associated with two avenues for mitigating RMM: effective internal control over financial reporting and higher auditor quality. In addition, we find that boards with more extensive risk oversight processes are associated with fewer actual instances of materially misstated financial statements.

Keywords: Board Risk Oversight, Internal Control, Corporate Governance, Risk Management, Risk of Material Misstatement

JEL Classification: G30, M40

Suggested Citation:

Beasley, Mark S. and Blay, Allen Dennis and Lewellen, Christina and McAllister, Michelle, The Association Between Board Risk Oversight and the Risk of Material Misstatement (July 25, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3219885
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,227
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies