Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Unintended Benefit of the Risk Factor Mandate of 2005

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

72 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2018 Last revised: 5 Mar 2021

Allen H. Huang

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology - Department of Accounting

Jianghua Shen

Xiamen University

Amy Zang

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 5, 2020

Abstract

In 2005, the SEC mandated that firms disclose risk factors to provide useful information about firm risk. An unintended effect of the mandate is that mandatory risk factor (RF) disclosure may constitute “meaningful cautionary language” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, and may therefore provide legal protection for forward-looking statements (FLSs). Using both a difference-in-differences design and a two-stage least squares approach, we find that, following the mandate, firms that had not previously disclosed risk factors (late RF disclosers) became more willing to provide qualitative FLSs, particularly positive ones, than other firms. This finding is consistent with our prediction that, for late RF disclosers, the mandate reduces managers’ perceived litigation risk. We also find that these firms experience improvement in their information environment. A path analysis reveals that the mandate improves firms’ information environment not only directly but also indirectly by prompting more disclosure of positive FLSs, illustrating an unintended benefit of the 2005 RF mandate. Cross-sectional tests show that the RF mandate induces a larger increase in positive FLSs for firms whose managers perceive a higher level of benefit from safe harbor protection arising from meaningful cautionary statements.

Keywords: Risk factor disclosure; Litigation risk; Forward-looking statements; Voluntary disclosure; Information environment

JEL Classification: K22; M41; M43

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Allen H. and Shen, Jianghua and Zang, Amy, The Unintended Benefit of the Risk Factor Mandate of 2005 (December 5, 2020). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3219712 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3219712
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
13 Citations
Mei Zhao , Yun Ke , Yao Yi
The effects of risk factor disclosure on analysts’ earnings forecasts: evidence from Chinese IPOs
Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 29 , issue 4 , p. 866 Posted: 2022
Crossref
ALLEN HUANG , KAI WAI HUI , REEYARN ZHIYANG LI
Federal Judge Ideology: A New Measure of Ex Ante Litigation Risk
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 57 , issue 2 , p. 431 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Joshua Filzen , Garrett McBrayer , Kyle Shannon
Risk Factor Disclosures: Do Managers and Markets Speak the Same Language?
Accounting Horizons, forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.2308/HORIZONS-17-086 · 37 Pages · Posted: 3 Nov 2016 · Last revised: 21 Jun 2022 · Downloads: 505
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Shiu-Yik Au , Bin Qiu , Szu-Yin (Jennifer) Wu
Do Risk Factor Disclosures Reduce Stock Price Crash Risk?
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming · 54 Pages · Posted: 2 May 2019 · Last revised: 12 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 754
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
416
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,764
RANK
161,184
13 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies