Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Mandatory Adoption of Outside Directors Improve Firm Performance?

31st Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2018

38 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2018

Yasutomo Tsukioka

Kwansei Gakuin University

Date Written: July 26, 2018

Abstract

This paper examines the economic consequences of the introduction of regulations that mandate listed firms adopt outside directors. The Japanese Companies Act was revised in June 2014, and this revision required listed firms to adopt at least one outside director. Although half of the listed firms had no outside directors before the revision of this act, almost all listed firms now have outside directors. I find that mandatory adopters experience a significant increase in profitability and corporate governance quality relative to voluntary adopters after the act was revised. This evidence suggests that the adoption of outside directors enhances firm performance in mandatory adopters. Moreover, this study reveals that the adoption of independent outside directors improves firm performance more than adopting affiliated outside directors.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Outside Director, Regulation, Governance Reform, Companies Act Revision

JEL Classification: G34, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Tsukioka, Yasutomo, Does the Mandatory Adoption of Outside Directors Improve Firm Performance? (July 26, 2018). 31st Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3220311 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3220311
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,358
RANK
672,649
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies