Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stakeholders’ Perspective on Electronic Initiatives in Corporate Governance

The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XVII, No. 1, January 2018, pp. 24-61

Posted: 10 Aug 2018

Sunaina Kanojia

University of Delhi

J. Sharma

University of Delhi - Delhi School of Economics

Nidhi Kapoor

University of Delhi - Kalindi College

Date Written: January 27, 2018

Abstract

The urge to reduce information asymmetry has been accelerated in the recent past to create a transparent and robust corporate governance mechanism, wherein electronic governance is a significant contributor. This study attempts to analyze the attitude of shareholders and Company Secretaries (CS) towards various aspects related to electronic governance and its impact on corporate governance. In order to understand the stakeholders’ perspectives, attitudes, and viewpoint, a questionnaire was framed and circulated amongst the shareholders and CS fraternity. t-test and ANOVA have been applied in order to test that perception about various electronic initiatives, and the impact of e-initiatives on better corporate governance is not statistically different on the basis of respondents’ demographics and participation in virtual meetings. Further, in order to determine if perception about the impact of einitiatives on better corporate governance is dependent on respondents’ perception about various e-initiatives and demographic variables, multiple regression has been applied. Also, desirability for higher shareholder participation has been studied as the mediating variables using Sobel’s mediation test. The respondents demonstrated moderate to high agreeability for all the major variables that have been studied, implying that they are well aware about the need and positive implications of moving towards e-initiatives. Further, in regression analysis, the perception about virtual shareholder meetings, e-voting and electronic delivery of documents were found to be positively and significantly affecting the perception about impact of e-initiatives on better corporate governance. The perception about the desirability for higher shareholder participation was found to be significant partial mediator in the relationship of perception about e-initiatives (independent variable) and the perception about impact of e-initiatives on better corporate governance (dependent variable).

Suggested Citation:

Kanojia, Sunaina and Sharma, J. and Kapoor, Nidhi, Stakeholders’ Perspective on Electronic Initiatives in Corporate Governance (January 27, 2018). The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XVII, No. 1, January 2018, pp. 24-61, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3220950
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
920
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies