Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lobbying with the Competition: Do Firm Differentiation, Law Specificity, and Firm Strategy Matter?

52 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2018 Last revised: 29 Oct 2019

Adam J. Olson

University of Cincinnati - Department of Accounting

Frances M. Tice

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Accounting

Connie D. Weaver

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 15, 2019

Abstract

In this paper, we examine how firms choose their lobbying participation given the competitive advantages that can be gained from: (1) firm-specific attributes in the form of differentiation, (2) specificity of tax laws under which firms operate, (3) and other tax strategy policies that firms have at their disposal to gain a competitive advantage. We use tax lobbying surrounding the 2004 American Jobs Creation Act and the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act as our empirical setting. We find that firm differentiation increases individual lobbying and decreases trade association lobbying when the laws being lobbied are narrow in scope. However, broader laws significantly reduce the relation between firm differentiation and individual lobbying. We also find that tax planning and tax lobbying is coordinated, and it is not impacted by law specificity. The findings from our study provide important insights into the circumstances under which firms will choose to lobby for laws and in what format firms will conduct their lobbying.

Keywords: corporate lobbying, firm differentiation, law specificity, firm strategy

Suggested Citation:

Olson, Adam J. and Tice, Frances M. and Weaver, Connie D., Lobbying with the Competition: Do Firm Differentiation, Law Specificity, and Firm Strategy Matter? (October 15, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3220686 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3220686
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,798
RANK
420,501
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies