Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards a Three-Player Game Modelization of Corporate Tax Evasion

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 19, No. 3, 2018

26 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2018

Souhir Neifar

University of Sfax - Faculty of Economics and Management (FSEGS)

Date Written: July 26, 2018

Abstract

This paper models corporate tax evasion as a game among three players: tax authorities, shareholders and the manager in order to understand the behavior of corporate tax evasion (CTE), its causes and the possible mechanisms that can alleviate it. For this purpose, a three-level programming is used in order to estimate optimum tax authorities’ decision variables that limit the tax evasion. The main finding of this paper is that the existing inequality in penalty rate for tax evasion between shareholders and manager is likely to be related to the bonus rate of tax evasion accorded by shareholders to the manager. Accordingly, this paper recommends that the penalty rate for tax evasion practices must not always be higher for the manager than for shareholders. An alternative tool to limit tax evasion can be considering the probability of tax audit equal to one. Finally, for researchers, this study may serve as model for analyzing taxpayers’ behavior in a corporate taxation game.

Keywords: corporate tax evasion, game theory, three-level programming, principal-agent model

JEL Classification: H26, C79, C69

Suggested Citation:

Neifar, Souhir, Towards a Three-Player Game Modelization of Corporate Tax Evasion (July 26, 2018). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 19, No. 3, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3220624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,222
RANK
396,898
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies