Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Investors Care Who Did the Audit? Evidence from Form AP

56 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2018 Last revised: 8 Jul 2021

Marcus Doxey

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

James Lawson

Bucknell University

Thomas J. Lopez

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Quinn Thomas Swanquist

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 22, 2021

Abstract

In early 2017, the PCAOB mandated the disclosure of audit participants, including the lead audit partner and other audit firms participating in the audit (“component auditors”). In this study, we examine whether investors use these disclosures in a way that influences their investment decisions, a primary goal of the PCAOB. Using trading volume, absolute abnormal returns, and bid-ask spreads, we find little evidence of a significant investor response following the disclosure of partner identity or component auditor participation in the first three years of the requirement. We also examine instances where these disclosures are most likely to be informative (e.g., partners associated with restatements or component auditors with PCAOB deficiencies) and find no significant investor response. Taken together, we find little evidence that capital markets respond to partner and component auditor identity in the United States.

Keywords: Audit Partner; Audit Participants; Capital Markets; Form AP

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Doxey, Marcus M and Lawson, James and Lopez, Thomas J. and Swanquist, Quinn Thomas, Do Investors Care Who Did the Audit? Evidence from Form AP (June 22, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3221383 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3221383
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
F Abdi , A Ranaldo
A simple estimation of bid-ask spreads from daily close, high, and low prices. The Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , p. 4437 - 4480 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Torben G Andersen
Return volatility and trading volume: an information flow interpretation of stochastic volatility
Journal of Finance , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 169 - 204 Posted: 1996
Crossref
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Crossref
--- C J Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
798
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,544
RANK
71,381
33 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies