Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Financial Performance: The Case of Australia and Sri Lanka

12 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2018 Last revised: 3 May 2019

Pratheepkanth Puwanenthiren

University of Jaffna Sri Lanka

Samanthala Hettihewa

Federation University Australia - Federation Business School

Christopher S. Wright

Holmes Institute - Higher Education Faculty

Date Written: March 1, 2016

Abstract

This study analyses the correlation between Board attributes and company performance in a sample of 100 Australian and 100 Sri Lankan firms. The analysed Board attributes include size; gender ratio; fraction of non-independent members; and experience. The level of economic development considered to have a potential confounding effect on the outcomes. The analysis of the data suggest that: Boards in Australia are much larger than Boards in Sri Lanka; Boards are male dominated in both nations; and while Board structure provides predictive insight into firm performance, only a few individual attributes are significant. Important finding of this research is that the larger Boards of Australia have a significantly stronger influence on firm performance than the relatively smaller Boards of Sri Lanka. Future research should extend the review of the effects of Board size on corporate performance.

Keywords: Board Structure, Board Size, Independent Directors, Firm Performance

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Puwanenthiren, Pratheepkanth and Hettihewa, Samanthala and Wright, Christopher S., Corporate Governance and Financial Performance: The Case of Australia and Sri Lanka (March 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3221963 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3221963
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
Z Abidin , Kamal , K Jusoff
Board structure and corporate performance in Malaysia
International Journal of Economics & Finance , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 150 - 164 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R &amp; Aguilera , G Jackson
The cross-national diversity of corporate governance: Dimensions and determinants
Academy of Management Review , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
Crossref
H Aldamen , K Duncan , S Kelly , R &amp; Mcnamara , Nagel
Audit committee characteristics and company performance during the global financial crisis
Accounting & Finance , volume 52 , issue 4 , p. 971 - 1000
Crossref
H &amp; Aldamen , Duncan
Does adopting good corporate governance impact the cost of intermediated and non-intermediated debt?
Accounting & Finance , volume 52 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 49 - 76
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,475
RANK
424,948
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies