Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Cross-Country Investigation of Corporate Governance and Corporate Sustainability Disclosure: A Signaling Theory Perspective

Sustainability, MDPI, 10, 2018

16 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2018

Seong Mi Bae

Inha University - Department of Sustainability Management

Md. Abdul Kaium Masud, PhD

Noakhali Science and Technology University

Jong Dae Kim

Inha University - College of Business Administration

Date Written: July 25, 2018

Abstract

There is a dearth of research on corporate governance and total sustainability disclosure (economic, environmental, and social) in developing, particularly South Asian, countries. This is unique cross-country research on South Asian countries’ corporate governance elements and total sustainability disclosure practices. The study considers a set of insightful theories, namely, the signaling and agency theories of understanding the motives and drivers of sustainability reporting. Based on data from the Global Reporting Initiative database, the study analyzes Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan. We have collected annual report and sustainability reports from the GRI database for the period between 2009 and 2016. Based on the signaling and agency theories, the study investigates how board and shareholding structures convey signals to the market and different stakeholders. Our empirical results find that total sustainability disclosure has a positive and significant relationship with foreign shareholding, institutional shareholding, board independence, and board size. On the other hand, we document that director shareholding is negatively but significantly associated with total sustainability disclosure. Therefore, we conclude that corporate governance elements have very strong influential power to send positive signals to the market that lead to reduced information asymmetry and ensuring honest signals from different stakeholders.

Keywords: Sustainability Reporting; Corporate Governance; CSR; Signaling Theory; Bangladesh; India; Pakistan

Suggested Citation:

Mi Bae, Seong and Masud, Md. Abdul Kaium and Kim, Jong Dae, A Cross-Country Investigation of Corporate Governance and Corporate Sustainability Disclosure: A Signaling Theory Perspective (July 25, 2018). Sustainability, MDPI, 10, 2018 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3221624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
W Y Oh , Y K Chang , A Martynov
The Effect of Ownership Structure on Corporate Social Responsibility: Empirical Evidence from
Korea. J. Bus. Ethics , volume 104 , p. 283 - 297 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Y K Chang , W.-Y Oh , J H Park , M G Jang
Exploring the Relationship Between Board Characteristics and CSR: Empirical Evidence from
Korea. J. Bus. Ethics , volume 140 , p. 225 - 242 Posted: 2017
Crossref
R Fernández-Gago , L Cabeza-García , M Nieto
Independent directors' background and CSR disclosure
Corp. Soc. Responsib. Environ. Manag , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2018
Crossref
N Ortiz-De-Mandojana , J Aguilera-Caracuel , M Morales-Raya
Corporate Governance and Environmental Sustainability: The Moderating Role of the National Institutional Context
Corp. Soc. Responsib. Environ. Manag , volume 23 , p. 150 - 164 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,698
RANK
416,013
4 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies