Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Earnings Management and Corporate Governance: A Study for Latin America

31 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2018

Cristhian Mellado

Universidad Catolica de la Santisima Concepcion

Paolo Saona

Saint Louis University

Date Written: July 29, 2018

Abstract

This paper analyses the impact of both, the ownership structure features and the institutional settings, on real-based activities manipulation based on a sample of listed companies in the underexplored Latin American market for the period of 2004–2016. Using panel data based-GMM system estimator technique, the results confirm some previous literature that the monitoring role of the majority owner is crucial in mitigating the opportunistic behavior of managers in engaging in real activities manipulation that reduces the informative content of financial statements. However, the analysis of the insider ownership revealed the negative impact on transparency that entrenched managers cause. In this case, we observed that as insider ownership increases, managers engage more actively in real earnings management. Other corporate governance tools like the institutional ownership and the quality of the regulatory system demonstrated to be effective mechanisms in reducing the real activities manipulation. Taken together, our results mean that in institutional settings characterized by weak protection of the investors and possible conflicts of interests among shareholders, the oversight by majority shareholder in conjunction with the legal and regulatory framework becomes an important governance mechanism that reduces the managerial discretionary decision making concerning the quality of reported earnings.

Suggested Citation:

Mellado, Cristhian and Saona, Paolo, Real Earnings Management and Corporate Governance: A Study for Latin America (July 29, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3222094 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3222094
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
4 Citations
Aboubakar Mirza , Mazrah Malek , Mohamad Ali Abdul-Hamid , David McMillan
Value relevance of financial reporting: Evidence from Malaysia
Cogent Economics & Finance , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 1651623 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Syed Farhan Shah , Abdul Rashid , Wasim Shahid Malik
Potential Substitution Between Accrual Earnings Management and Real Earnings Management Among Pakistani Listed Firms
Global Business Review , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 180 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Mariano Gonzalez Sanchez , Eva M. Ibáñez Jiménez , Ana Segovia
Comparison of the Effects of Earnings Management on the Risk Premia between Companies in Developed and Emerging European Countries
GFJ-D-22-00221 · 17 Pages · Posted: 9 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 52
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Carlos Cid-Aranda , Felix Javier Lopez-Iturriaga
CEO Characteristics and Corporate Risk-Taking: Evidence From Emerging Markets
Economic Research-Ekonomska Istraživanja 36 (2), 2175008, 2022, · 45 Pages · Posted: 25 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 167
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,480
RANK
384,900
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies