Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Information Technology on Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from the EDGAR Implementation

47 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2019 Last revised: 4 Sep 2019

Feng Guo

Iowa State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Ling Lei Lisic

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Michael D. Stuart

Oklahoma State University - Stillwater - Spears School of Business

Chong Wang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Date Written: August 2019

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of information technologies on stock price crash risk. Information technology advancements change the way firm-specific information is disseminated and acquired, providing significant benefits to investors. We use the required staggered implementation of the SEC’s Electronic Data Gathering and Analysis Retrieval system (EDGAR) to examine the impact of information technologies on stock price crash risk. We find that the implementation of EDGAR is associated with a decrease in stock price crash risk and this effect is more pronounced for firms with greater information asymmetry. Additionally, we provide evidence that conservatism increases following the EDGAR implementation, suggesting that more timely recognition of bad news is a channel through which stock price crash risk decreases following the implementation. Our results suggest that information technologies that strengthen the monitoring ability of investors limit managers’ ability to conceal and hoard bad news, which ultimately reduces stock price crash risk.

Keywords: Information technology, EDGAR, stock price crash risk

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Feng and Lisic, Ling Lei and Stuart, Michael D. and Wang, Chong, The Impact of Information Technology on Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from the EDGAR Implementation (August 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3223521 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3223521
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
Industry concentration and corporate disclosure policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Amador , P Weill
Learning from prices: Public communication and welfare
Journal of Political Economy , volume 118 , p. 866 - 907 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H An , T Zhang
Stock price synchronicity, crash risk, and institutional investors
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 21 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S Asthana , S Balsam
The effect of EDGAR on the market reaction to 10-K filings
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , issue 4-5 , p. 349 - 372 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Zheng Liu , Ning Zhang
The productivity effect of digital financial reporting
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 2350 Posted: 2024
Crossref
ITAY GOLDSTEIN , SHIJIE YANG , LUO ZUO
The Real Effects of Modern Information Technologies: Evidence from the EDGAR Implementation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 61 , issue 5 , p. 1699 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Enrique A. Gomez
The Effect of Mandatory Disclosure Dissemination on Information Asymmetry among Investors: Evidence from the Implementation of the EDGAR System
The Accounting Review , volume 99 , issue 1 , p. 235 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Xiaoran Ni , Ye Wang , David Yin
Does Modern Information Technology Attenuate Managerial Information Hoarding? Evidence from EDGAR Implementation
Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming · 44 Pages · Posted: 22 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 27 Sep 2021 · Downloads: 306
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
520
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,738
RANK
123,612
4 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies