Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do companies redact material information from confidential SEC filings? Evidence from the FAST Act

51 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2018 Last revised: 7 Oct 2022

Anne Thompson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Oktay Urcan

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Hayoung Yoon

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Accounting Department

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 5, 2022

Abstract

The Securities and Exchange Commission permits companies to redact proprietary information from material contract filings so long as the redacted information 1) would cause competitive harm if disclosed, and 2) the information is legally immaterial. Because these joint criteria are inherently contradictory, we examine whether legally immaterial redacted information is economically material to investors. We find that firms’ stock price discovery process is significantly slower and insider trading is significantly greater after companies file redacted contracts compared to non-redacted contracts. We then examine the impact of the 2019 FAST Act which reduced the SEC’s oversight of redacted contracts. Companies redact more frequently and insider trading (but not speed of stock price discovery) is more pronounced after the FAST Act. Taken together, these findings suggest that at least some redacted information is economically material to investors and that reducing SEC oversight of redacted information may not be in investors’ best interests.

Keywords: Redacted disclosure, Confidential treatment, Materiality, Intra-period timeliness, Insider trading

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Thompson, Anne and Urcan, Oktay and Yoon, Hayoung, Do companies redact material information from confidential SEC filings? Evidence from the FAST Act (October 5, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3224697 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3224697
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Anonymous
Confidential Treatment of Information Required by the Securities Exchange Act
The Yale Law Journal , volume 47 , issue 5 , p. 790 - 798 Posted: 1938
S Arif , J D Kepler , J Schroeder , D Taylor
Audit Process, Private Information, and Insider Trading
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2022
M Baker , Y Xuan
Under New Management: Equity Issues and the Attribution of Past Returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 1 , p. 66 - 78 Posted: 2016
D Bao , Y Kim , L Su
Do Firms Redact Information from Material Contracts to Conceal Bad News?
The Accounting Review Posted: 2022
Load more
5 Citations
Dichu Bao , Yongtae Kim , Lixin (Nancy) Su
Do Firms Redact Information from Material Contracts to Conceal Bad News?
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 5 , p. 29 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Daniel Zwirn , Jim Kyung-Soo Liew , Ahmad Ajakh
This Time Is Different, but It Will End the Same Way: Unrecognized Secular Changes in the Bond Market since the 2008 Crisis That May Precipitate the Next Crisis
50 Pages · Posted: 17 May 2019 · Downloads: 3,790
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kalin S. Kolev , Daeun Lee , Monica Neamtiu
SEC confidential treatment and regulatory filing reviews
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 107069 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Stephanie F. Cheng , Yimeng Li , Pengkai Lin
Attention to Detail: How Do Information Users Process Exhibits in Form 10-K?
66 Pages · Posted: 24 Jan 2023 · Last revised: 21 May 2025 · Downloads: 421
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
843
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,314
RANK
40,110
5 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies