Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Earnings Forecasts Informed by Proxy Statement Compensation Disclosures?

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2018 Last revised: 14 Aug 2019

Stephannie Larocque

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Melissa Martin

University of Illinois at Chicago

Beverly R. Walther

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 13, 2019

Abstract

We investigate the extent to which market participants use compensation payouts released in the DEF 14A proxy statement (DEF14A) to assess future firm performance by examining sell-side analysts’ earnings forecasts. Consistent with prior work, we confirm that CEO compensation unexplained by current observable economic factors is positively associated with future firm performance. We find that both the likelihood that analysts revise their forecasts following release of the DEF14A and the magnitude and direction of analysts’ forecast revisions are positively associated with unexplained CEO compensation. These associations are stronger after the SEC required additional compensation-related disclosures in late 2006, but lower if the firm has weak corporate governance or more precise other information. Analysts’ reactions are not complete, however. Analysts’ forecast errors measured months after the DEF14A release are associated with past unexplained compensation, especially in the pre-2006 period and for analysts who do not revise at the DEF14A release. Taken together, our results suggest that compensation payouts released in the DEF14A contain useful forward-looking information that is recognized by at least some sophisticated market participants, and that the increased disclosure regulations assisted market participants in incorporating this information.

Keywords: Analysts, Compensation, Disclosure, Forecasts

JEL Classification: M4, M41, G17, G24, J33

Suggested Citation:

Larocque, Stephannie A. and Martin, Melissa and Walther, Beverly R., Are Earnings Forecasts Informed by Proxy Statement Compensation Disclosures? (August 13, 2019). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3224578 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3224578
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
J S Abarbanell
Do analysts' earnings forecasts incorporate information in prior stock price changes?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 147 - 165 Posted: 1991
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
S P Baginski , J M Hassell
The market interpretation of management earnings forecasts as a predictor of subsequent financial analyst forecast revision
The Accounting Review , volume 65 , issue 1 , p. 175 - 190 Posted: 1990
R D Banker , S M Datar
Sensitivity, precision, and linear aggregation of signals for performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 39 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,481
RANK
451,432
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies