Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Communication Is a Two-way Street: Analyzing Approaches Undertaken to Systematically Transfer Audit Research Knowledge to Policymakers

2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

69 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2018 Last revised: 11 May 2021

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Kris Hoang

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

Yi Luo

Ivey Business School, Western University

Date Written: April 5, 2021

Abstract

Audit academics and policymakers express ongoing concerns about limited knowledge transfer between audit research and policymaking. We use theory-based knowledge transfer norms to evaluate eight practices used by audit academics to transfer research knowledge to policymakers. The discontinued PCAOB-AAA Auditing Section “Research Synthesis Project” came closest to enacting these theory-based knowledge transfer norms. Hence, we examine why those involved in that project did not follow these norms. Interviews with project authors reveal that their review creation approach anchored on the traditional academic literature review, and insufficiently adjusted it to meet the goal of communicating audit research evidence to policymakers. However, interviews with PCAOB project liaisons indicate that policymakers were engaged with and found value in the review creation process. Thus, we analyze PCAOB rulemaking documents for evidence that policymakers valued and used the project’s reviews in their policymaking. Over the project’s duration, we find increasing citations of research to the reviews themselves and to a broader set of academic research. Our findings of knowledge transfer occurrence in this project warrant further research on the efficacy of mobilizing audit research via research syntheses. We also show how several current audit domain knowledge transfer practices can be combined with the research syntheses approach leading to systematic effective knowledge transfer to policymakers.

Keywords: audit standard setting; communication theory; knowledge transfer; evidence-informed policymaking.

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M48, K23

Suggested Citation:

Salterio, Steven E. and Hoang, Kris and Luo, Yi, Communication Is a Two-way Street: Analyzing Approaches Undertaken to Systematically Transfer Audit Research Knowledge to Policymakers (April 5, 2021). 2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3224709 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3224709
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
D T Campbell , J C Stanley
Experimental and Quasi-Experimental Designs for Statements when the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion and Related Amendments to PCAOB Standards
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 26 - 40 Posted: 1963
C E Earley , K L Hooks , J R Joe , P W Polinski , Z Rezaee , P B Roush , K A Sanderson , Y J Wu
The Auditing Standards Committee of the Auditing Section of the American Accounting Association's Response to the International Auditing and Assurance Standard's Board's Invitation to Comment: Enhancing Audit Quality in the Public Interest
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2017
Crossref
D M Eddy
Evidence-based medicine: A unified approach , volume 24 , p. 9 - 17 Posted: 2005
Crossref
E Evans , R Burritt , J Guthrie
Bridging the Gap between Academic Accounting Research and Professional Practice. Sydney: Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,657
RANK
254,445
10 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies