Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Teva Case: A Tale of a Race to the Bottom in Global Securities Regulation

Forthcoming in Research Handbook on Representative Shareholder Litigation (Jessica Erickson, Sean Griffith, David H. Webber and Verity Winship eds, Edward Elgar, 2018)

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 416/2018

29 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2018 Last revised: 28 Aug 2018

Sharon Hannes

Tel Aviv University - Buchmann Faculty of Law

Ehud Kamar

Tel Aviv University - Buchmann Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: August 1, 2018

Abstract

This article tells how a shareholder class action against Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, the largest generic drug maker in the world, ended the practice of hiding individual executive pay figures by companies crosslisted in Israel and the United States. That practice relied on a tenuous reading of the law, according to which crosslisted issuers are exempt from the pay disclosure requirements in both countries. It had nevertheless persisted with no regulatory response because both countries maintained a hands-off attitude toward crosslisted companies. While the class action prompted Israel to ensure crosslisted issuers disclose individual executive pay, crosslisted issuers continue to be less transparent in other areas. The story serves as an important reminder of the powerful race to laxity in the global competition for securities listings.

Keywords: Securities Regulation, Regulatory Competition, Race to the Bottom, Crosslisting

JEL Classification: G30, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Hannes, Sharon and Kamar, Ehud, The Teva Case: A Tale of a Race to the Bottom in Global Securities Regulation (August 1, 2018). Forthcoming in Research Handbook on Representative Shareholder Litigation (Jessica Erickson, Sean Griffith, David H. Webber and Verity Winship eds, Edward Elgar, 2018), European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 416/2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3224631 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3224631
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Ido Baum
The Israeli Executives Whose Salaries Are as Secret as Prisoner X
Haaretz Posted: 2013-03-04
Ido Baum
Disclosing Executive Pay Becomes the Battleground in Israel's Regulatory Debate
Haaretz Posted: 2013-08-26
Lucian Bebchuk , Arye
Federalism and the Corporation: The Desirable Limits on State Competition in Corporate Law
Harvard Law Review , volume 105 , p. 1435 - 1510 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Lucian Bebchuk , Assaf Arye , Hamdani
Vigorous Race or Leisurely Walk: Reconsidering the Competition over Corporate Charters
Yale Law Journal , volume 112 , p. 553 - 615 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,811
RANK
333,065
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies