Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Audit Oversight and the Originate-to-Distribute Model

Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2021-137

62 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2018 Last revised: 11 May 2021

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Yiwei Dou

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Jungbae Kim

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 5, 2021

Abstract

The originate-to-distribute (OTD) model, in which the originators of mortgages sell or securitize the mortgages to third parties, likely contributed to the 2008 financial crisis. Auditors were blamed for permitting clients to understate the risks of the model in their financial reports, fostering undisciplined lending. We investigate whether public audit oversight influences OTD lending by promoting more vigilant audits of the financial reports of originators. Using a difference-in-differences design prior to the financial crisis, we find reduced OTD lending by banks after the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) criticizes their auditors’ audits of financial reports regarding OTD transactions. The reduction is greater for banks with poorer risk controls and stronger incentives to manage earnings. We also find a reduction in gains on loan sales and securitizations. The results suggest that PCAOB inspections can help discipline OTD lending, a real effect of public audit oversight in the United States.

Keywords: Regulation; PCAOB Inspections; Auditors; Originate-to-distribute model of lending; Securitization; Banks

JEL Classification: G21; G38; M41; M42

Suggested Citation:

Aobdia, Daniel and Dou, Yiwei and Kim, Jungbae, Public Audit Oversight and the Originate-to-Distribute Model (May 5, 2021). Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2021-137, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3224921
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
L Abbott , K Gunney , T Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from stakeholder reaction to GAAP-deficient PCAOB inspection reports of small auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditor-client relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
Crossref
J Angrist , J Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: an empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection processPreliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
976
RANK
531,260
14 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies