Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between Ownership Concentration, Environmental Performance and Firm Performance Evidence from Indonesia

The 2017 International Conference on Management Sciences (ICoMS 2017) March 22, UMY, Indonesia; ISBN 978-602-7577-95-4

13 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2018

Mohamad Nur Utomo

Universitas Borneo Tarakan

Sugeng Wahyudi

Diponegoro University

Harjum Muharam

Diponegoro University - Economics and Business Faculty

Date Written: March 22, 2017

Abstract

In this study the relationships between ownership concentration and environmental performance and firm performance are examined. Companies manufacturing and mining sectors are listed in the Indonesia Stock Exchange as the sample in this study. Environmental performance is measured using Performance Rating Program (PROPER) by the Ministry of Environment and Forestry of the Republic Indonesia. Ownership concentration is measured by the percentage ownership of largest shareholders the first three (at least 5 percent) of the outstanding shares. Firm performance is measured by proxy ROA and Tobins Q. The findings indicate that there is no relationship between ownership concentration and environmental performance. Additionally Ownership concentration positively related to firm performance, and environmental performance is positively related to firm performance (in measurement of Tobins Q but not in ROA). The overall findings support agency theory and legitimacy theory. Environmental performance can be a strategy to increase firm performance.

Keywords: Ownership Concentration, Environmental Performance, Firm Performance, PROPER, Agency Theory, Legitimate Theory

JEL Classification: G30, Q50

Suggested Citation:

Utomo, Mohamad Nur and Wahyudi, Sugeng and Muharam, Harjum, The Relationship between Ownership Concentration, Environmental Performance and Firm Performance Evidence from Indonesia (March 22, 2017). The 2017 International Conference on Management Sciences (ICoMS 2017) March 22, UMY, Indonesia; ISBN 978-602-7577-95-4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3225510
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
W Aerts , D Cormier
Media legitimacy and corporate environmental communication
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 34 , issue 1 Posted: 2009
Crossref
K Ahmed , S Sehrish , F Saleem , M Yasi
Impact Of Concentrated Ownership On Firm Performance (Evidence From Karachi Stock
The 2017 International Conference on Management Sciences , volume 4 , p. 22 - 23 Posted: 2012
M Al-Saidi , B A Al-Shammari
Ownership concentration, ownership composition and the performance of the Kuwaiti listed nonfinancial firms
International Journal of Commerce and Management , volume 25 , issue 1 Posted: 2015
Crossref
S A Al-Tuwaijri , T E Christensen , K E Hughes
The relationship among Environmental Disclosure, Environmental Performance, and Economic Performance: A Simultaneous Equation Approach , volume 29 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,522
RANK
556,453
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies