Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory IFRS Adoption and Design Innovation

58 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2018 Last revised: 5 Dec 2024

Peng-Chia Chiu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Po-Hsuan Hsu

National Tsing Hua University - Department of Quantitative Finance; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER)

Feng Tian

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Long Yi

The Education University of Hong Kong

Date Written: November 25, 2024

Abstract

We use the mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in 2005 as an exogenous change in reporting regulations, examining how it affects design innovation. We find that mandatory IFRS adoption is positively related to firms’ likelihood of winning the iF Product Design Award, which acknowledges excellent product/service designs. We also find that after IFRS adoption, firms attract more international institutional investors who can better monitor and advise on product designs. The impact of this IFRS mandate is more pronounced for firms with expanded international sales, which may benefit more from international markets. Overall, our results enhance our understanding of how mandatory IFRS adoption affects firms’ innovation activities.


Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS); mandatory IFRS adoption; product development and design; institutional investors; globalization

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Chiu, Peng-Chia and Hsu, Po-Hsuan and Tian, Feng and Yi, Long, Mandatory IFRS Adoption and Design Innovation (November 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3226197 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3226197
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
116 References
P Aghion , P Howitt
A Model of Growth through Creative Destruction
Econometrica , volume 60 , issue 2 , p. 323 - 351 Posted: 1992
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and Institutional Ownership
The American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 1 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
R V Aguilera , K A Desender , M L , -P Lamy , J H Lee
The governance impact of a changing investor landscape
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 195 - 221 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,560
RANK
508,348
116 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies