Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To Give an Insight into Financial Crisis from Corporate Governance

48 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2018

Chia-Hsin Hung

National Chengchi University (NCCU)

Yi-Hua Hsieh

Tamkang University

Ku-Jun Lin

Tamkang University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 7, 2018

Abstract

Discussion about corporate governance (CG) mostly centers on corporate performance or the function of the board of directors. In this study, we incorporate external monitoring mechanisms into the analysis of CG to establish a comprehensive set of CG mechanisms. We then combine these mechanisms with financial crises (FCs) to elucidate (1) whether fulfilling CG reduces the risk of an FC when all other factors are controlled and (2) whether poor CG compromises subsequent company operations and causes an FC. In this study, we analyze companies listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange between 2003 and 2010 except for financial/securities companies. The empirical results show that conventional director and supervisor functions and external monitoring mechanisms influence the 3-year likeliness of an FC. For director and supervisor functions, the 3-year likeliness of an FC simultaneously increases with board size, share pledge ratio of directors and supervisors, and deviation from stock pledge responsibilities of directors and supervisors. For external monitoring mechanisms, the 3-year likeliness of an FC simultaneously increases with a decrease in information disclosure and accountant selection stringency. Moreover, the likeliness of an FC increases once a specific portion of board seats is occupied by independent directors and supervisors. In companies with a chairperson or chief executive officer, the risk of an FC simultaneously decreases with an increase in the shareholding ratio of the chairperson due to the coexistence of interest. Finally, we conduct a subsequent analysis to identify the common predictors in each year of the 3-year research period and adjust the scope of research to reinforce our argument that CG is the cause of FCs.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Financial Ration, Financial Crisis, Forecasting

JEL Classification: M10

Suggested Citation:

Hung, Michelle and Hsieh, Yi-Hua and Lin, Kujun, To Give an Insight into Financial Crisis from Corporate Governance (August 7, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3227798 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3227798
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
J Abor
Corporate governance and financing decisions of Ghanaian listed firms
Corporate Governance: The international journal of business in society , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 92 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Adnan Aziz , M , H A Dar
Predicting corporate bankruptcy: where we stand? Corporate Governance: The international journal of business in society , volume 6 , p. 18 - 33 Posted: 2006
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Firm performance and mechanisms to control agency problems between managers and shareholders
Journal of financial and quantitative analysis , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
Crossref
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The journal of finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,328
RANK
753,521
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies