Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Scandals and Regulation

Institute for New Economic Thinking Working Paper Series No. 71

68 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2018

Luzi Hail

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Ahmed Tahoun

London Business School

Clare Wang

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 2017

Abstract

Are regulatory interventions delayed reactions to market failures or can regulators proactively pre-empt corporate misbehavior? From a public interest view, we would expect “effective” regulation to ex ante mitigate agency conflicts between corporate insiders and outsiders, and prevent corporate misbehavior from occurring or quickly rectify transgressions. However, regulators are also self-interested and may be captured, uninformed, or ideological, and become less effective as a result. In this registered report, we develop a historical time series of corporate (accounting) scandals and (accounting) regulations for a panel of 26 countries from 1800 to 2015. An analysis of the lead-lag relations at both the global and individual country level yields the following insights: (i) Corporate scandals are an antecedent to regulation over long stretches of time, suggesting that regulators are typically less flexible and informed than firms. (ii) Regulation is positively related to the incidence of future scandals, suggesting that regulators are not fully effective, that explicit rules are required to identify scandalous corporate actions, or that new regulations have unintended consequences. (iii) There exist systematic differences in these lead-lag relations across countries and over time suggesting that the effectiveness of regulation is shaped by fundamental country characteristics like market development and legal tradition.

Keywords: Accounting fraud, Corporate scandals, Capital market regulation, Economics of regulation, Law and finance, International accounting

JEL Classification: F30, G18, G38, K22, L51, M48, N20

Suggested Citation:

Hail, Luzi and Tahoun, Ahmed and Wang, Clare, Corporate Scandals and Regulation (December 2017). Institute for New Economic Thinking Working Paper Series No. 71, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3228697 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3228697
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A Alesina
Credibility and Policy Convergence in a Two-party System with Rational Voters
American Economic Review , volume 78 , p. 796 - 805 Posted: 1988
A Arnold , And S Mccartney
It May Be Earlier Than You Think': Evidence, Myths and Informed Debate in Accounting History
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 14 , p. 227 - 53 Posted: 2003
Crossref
G Benston
Required Disclosure and the Stock Market: An Evaluation of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
American Economic Review , volume 63 , p. 132 - 55 Posted: 1973
R Ball
Market and Political/regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , p. 277 - 323 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
417
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,017
RANK
7,280
1 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Institute for New Economic Thinking Working Paper Series

Follow

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies