Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Performance Goals in CEO Compensation Contracts and Corporate Risk Taking

Chen, CX., Kim, M., Li, LY., and Zhu, W. (2021), Accounting Performance Goals in CEO Compensation Contracts and Corporate Risk Taking, Management Science (Accepted)

42 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2020 Last revised: 12 Jun 2021

Clara Xiaoling Chen

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

MJ Kim

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Laura Yue Li

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Wei Zhu

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: June 7, 2021

Abstract

This study provides the first large-sample archival evidence on the impact of three commonly used accounting performance goals (thresholds, targets, and maximums) in CEO compensation contracts on corporate risk taking. Using proxy statement disclosure on performance goals for CEOs of U.S. public companies, we find that lower thresholds and higher maximums are associated with greater corporate risk taking, and these results are more pronounced when CEOs have greater incentives to achieve accounting performance goals or have lower innate risk aversion. In addition, we find that target difficulty is not significantly associated with corporate risk taking after controlling for thresholds and maximums. Finally, we find that CEO compensation contracts are more likely to have lower thresholds and higher maximums when risk taking is more value-enhancing or when R&D investment is more profitable, consistent with boards setting performance goals to induce an appropriate amount of corporate risk taking. Our study contributes to the accounting literature on target setting and corporate risk taking by identifying accounting performance goals as a tool in executive compensation contract design to influence risk taking.

Keywords: performance goals, target setting, risk taking, executive compensation

JEL Classification: J33, M12, M40, M52

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Clara Xiaoling and Kim, Minjeong and Li, Yue Laura and Zhu, Wei, Accounting Performance Goals in CEO Compensation Contracts and Corporate Risk Taking (June 7, 2021). Chen, CX., Kim, M., Li, LY., and Zhu, W. (2021), Accounting Performance Goals in CEO Compensation Contracts and Corporate Risk Taking, Management Science (Accepted), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3228659 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3228659
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
914
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,308
RANK
59,285
10 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies