Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Don't Make Me Look Bad: How the Audit Market Penalizes Auditors for Doing Their Job

47 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2018 Last revised: 8 Jul 2021

Elizabeth N. Cowle

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Stephen P. Rowe

University of Arkansas

Date Written: June 1, 2021

Abstract

We examine the reputational impact of an audit office issuing adverse internal control opinions (adverse ICOs). While prior research has examined how clients that receive an adverse ICO respond, we focus on clients that did not receive an adverse ICO. We find that audit offices that issue more adverse ICOs experience lower growth and that this effect is stronger when the adverse ICO is associated with a more visible client or refers to an entity-level control weakness. Finally, we find that clients are less likely to select auditors with a history of issuing adverse ICOs and that auditors are able to recoup some of their lost growth when they issue fewer adverse ICOs. Our results indicate that the market for audit services penalizes auditors for disclosing information critical of management, which undermines the value of direct-to-investor auditor communications and provides insight into potential longer-term implications of the expanded auditor’s report.

Keywords: audit market competition, auditor reputation, internal control weakness

Suggested Citation:

Cowle, Elizabeth N. and Rowe, Stephen P., Don't Make Me Look Bad: How the Audit Market Penalizes Auditors for Doing Their Job (June 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3228321 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3228321
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
C R Alexander , S W Bauguess , G Bernile , Y A Lee , J Marietta-Westberg
Economic Effects of SOX Section 404 Compliance: A Corporate Insider Perspective
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 2-3 , p. 267 - 290 Posted: 2013
Crossref
D Aobdia , R Petacchi
Consequences of Low-Quality Audits for Engagement Partners: The Importance of Audit Firm Quality Control Systems Posted: 2019
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The Effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies on Firm Risk and Cost of Equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Audit Analytics
SOX 404 Disclosures: A Fourteen Year Review
Audit Analytics Trend Reports Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,228
RANK
39,872
19 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies