Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are All Interim CEOs Created Equal? Evidence from Investor Perceptions and CEO Behavior

AAA 2019 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting

53 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2018 Last revised: 17 Aug 2018

Leah Baer

University of Northern Iowa - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 15, 2018

Abstract

I examine the market perception of different types of interim CEO successions as well as CEO behavior of different types of interim CEOs. Using a hand-collected dataset, I find that there are two types of interim CEOs: aspiring and place-holding. I find that the market perceives the appointment of place-holding interim CEOs as bad news and the appointment of aspiring interim CEOs as similar to the appointment of permanent CEOs. I further study actions taken by interim CEOs and do not find evidence that aspiring interim CEOs act myopically. Rather they appear to invest more in discretionary expenses, such as research and development, which suggests that they focus on increasing long-term shareholder value. Thus, market expectations of aspiring interim CEOs are in line with CEO behavior. In addition, analysis of CEO effort suggests that place-holding interim CEOs exert less effort than permanent CEOs. Specifically, I find preliminary evidence that they issue less accurate forecasts. Overall, this paper provides initial evidence consistent with career concerns of interim CEOs resulting in different CEO behavior.

Keywords: Interim CEOs, CEO Behavior, Career Concerns, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Baer, Leah, Are All Interim CEOs Created Equal? Evidence from Investor Perceptions and CEO Behavior (August 15, 2018). AAA 2019 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3229496 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3229496
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
M Antia , C Pantzalis , J C Park
CEO decision horizon and firm performance: An empirical investigation
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 288 - 301 Posted: 2010
Crossref
G A Ballinger , J J Marcel
The use of an interim CEO during succession episodes and firm performance
Strategic Management Journal , p. 262 - 283 Posted: 2010
Crossref
L S Bamber , J Jiang , I Y Wang
What's my style? The influence of top managers on voluntary corporate financial disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Bertrand , A Schoar
Managing with style: The effect of managers on firm policies
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 4 , p. 1169 - 1208 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,846
RANK
484,103
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies