Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Academic Directors and IPO Initial Returns

Forthcoming in Int. J. Business Governance and Ethics

Posted: 22 Aug 2018

Bazeet Badru

School of Economics, Finance and Banking. Universiti Utara Malaysia ; Universiti Utara Malaysia.

Nurwati A. Ahmad-Zaluki

Universiti Utara Malaysia - Othman Yeop Abdullah Graduate School of Business

Wan Nordin Wan-Hussin

Universiti Utara Malaysia - College of Business

Date Written: August 9, 2018

Abstract

This study examines the impact of academic directors on IPO initial returns. With a sample of 208 Malaysian IPOs over the period of 2005 to 2015 and applying a quantile regression (QR) technique, this study finds that the academic directors are significantly and negatively associated with IPO initial returns, indicating IPOs with more directors from the academia can better serve as a signal of a company’s quality. Such directors are perceived by potential investors as intellectuals capable of providing knowledgeable skills in complex decision-making, like IPO, as well as advising and monitoring the management. These findings indicate that IPO issuers can demonstrate their quality through a highly educated board.

Keywords: Academic Directors; Corporate Governance; IPO Initial Returns; Quantile Regression; Malaysia

Suggested Citation:

Badru, Bazeet and Ahmad-Zaluki, Nurwati A. and Wan-Hussin, Wan Nordin, Academic Directors and IPO Initial Returns (August 9, 2018). Forthcoming in Int. J. Business Governance and Ethics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3229261
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
973
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies