Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit Competency Changes in Response to Financial Reporting Quality Failures

56 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2018 Last revised: 27 Jan 2021

Melissa Renschler

Suffolk University; Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Udi Hoitash

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: November 5, 2019

Abstract

Limited data availability on the internal audit function (IAF) has constrained research on the topic. This study uses manually collected data from LinkedIn of internal audit personnel that overcome certain limitations of previous survey-based data. Using this longitudinal data, we find that IAF competency is inversely related to the propensity of material weaknesses and misstatements. We also find that IAF competency improves in the year following material weakness and restatement disclosures. Importantly, we document that the increase in competency is not uniform across firms and is greater in firms with longer auditor tenure and higher audit committee accounting expertise. These findings suggest that while there is no regulatory oversight governing the IAF, certain auditor and governance characteristics influence its value. Regulators that have focused on improving financial reporting quality by enhancing oversight over external auditors and audit committees should also consider focusing on the IAF.

Keywords: Internal Audit Function, Internal Audit Competency, Financial Reporting Quality, Material Weakness Disclosure, Restatements, LinkedIn

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Renschler, Melissa and Hoitash, Rani and Hoitash, Udi, Internal Audit Competency Changes in Response to Financial Reporting Quality Failures (November 5, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3229966 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3229966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit Committee Characteristics and Restatements. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal Audit Quality and Financial Reporting Quality: The Joint Importance of Independence and Competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor Task-Specific Expertise: The Case of Fair Value Accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
Crossref
D Aobdia
Do Practitioners Assessments Agree with Academic Proxies for Audit Quality? Evidence from PCAOB and Internal Inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
375
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,826
RANK
181,327
1 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies