Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Federal Judge Ideology and the Going Concern Reporting Incentives of Big Four and Non-Big Four Auditors

Contemporary Accounting Research

52 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2018 Last revised: 25 Jan 2025

Tracy Gu

The University of Hong Kong, HKU Business School

Kai Wai Hui

University of Hong Kong

Yingzhen Jiang

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Dan A. Simunic

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Date Written: August 9, 2018

Abstract

We analyze whether and how the perceived federal-level legal liability linked to federal judge ideology is associated with the likelihood of firms receiving going-concern modified audit opinions and analyze the differential effects on Big Four and non-Big Four auditors. We find that Big Four and non-Big Four auditors converge in their going-concern reporting decisions in circuits with more liberal judges. This convergence is caused by the greater effect of judge ideology on non-Big Four auditors. Furthermore, we empirically examine the association between federal judge ideology and actual lawsuits against auditors, and find that judge ideology has a greater impact on lawsuit likelihood for non-Big Four auditors for the restating companies. When auditors are sued, both the payout likelihood and amount are greater in circuits with more liberal judges, with the effect being more pronounced for non-Big Four auditors. This study provides evidence on how the perceived exposure to a gross negligence legal standard shapes auditors' going-concern reporting incentives for the two tiers of auditors in the market. It also adds to the literature on auditor litigation.

Keywords: Federal judge ideology, Perceived federal-level litigation risk, Going-concern modified audit opinions, Big Four, Non-Big Four JEL Classification G39, M40, M42

JEL Classification: G39, M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Tracy (Ti) and Hui, Kai Wai and Jiang, Yingzhen and Simunic, Dan A., Federal Judge Ideology and the Going Concern Reporting Incentives of Big Four and Non-Big Four Auditors (August 9, 2018). Contemporary Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3229115 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3229115
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
496
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,221
RANK
130,913
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies