Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Corporate Governance Play Role in Firms’ Performance? A Comparative Study of Pakistan, India and Bangladesh

International Journal of Economics and Empirical Research. 2016, 4(9), 450-464.

15 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2018

Ahmed Imran Hunjra

International University of Rabat - Rabat Business School; Ghazi University, Dera Ghazi Khan ; Pir Mehr Ali Shah Arid Agriculture University Rawalpindi (PMAS); University of Waikato

Hadia Naeem

Pir Mehr Ali Shah Arid Agriculture University Rawalpindi (PMAS)

Ayesha Noor

Pir Mehr Ali Shah Arid Agriculture University Rawalpindi (PMAS)

Amna Saleem

Pir Mehr Ali Shah Arid Agriculture University Rawalpindi (PMAS)

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

Purpose: To answer the question regarding impact of corporate governance on firms’ performance in Pakistan, India and Bangladesh, current study is conducted which is unique in the sense that it consists of integrative approach using ownership structure and board structure as two main corporate governance mechanisms.

Methodology: Panel data of thirty listed firms from nonfinancial sector of Pakistan and India and of twenty seven listed firms from the Bangladesh is taken from Pakistan Stock Exchange, Bombay Stock Exchange and Dhaka Stock Exchange respectively. Data ranges from year 2010 to 2015. Panel regression has been applied for data analysis.

Findings: Findings of the study revealed that some of variables have significant impact on firms’ performance in one country while remaining variables impact significantly in other countries. Managerial ownership is significantly and negatively associated with firm performance when measured through ROA. On the other hand institutional ownership, foreign ownership and board structure variables show insignificant relationship with firm performance in Pakistan. All of the variables of ownership and board structure show insignificant association with firms’ performance measured through ROA and ROE in India and Pakistan respectively. CEO/chairman duality is positive and significantly associated with ROE in India. Foreign ownership is significantly and positively associated with ROA and board independence has a significant and positive association with ROE in Bangladesh.

Recommendations: Policy recommendations have been provided.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Firms’ performance, Ownership structure, Board structure

JEL Classification: D23

Suggested Citation:

Hunjra, Ahmed Imran and Naeem, Hadia and Noor, Ayesha and Saleem, Amna, Does Corporate Governance Play Role in Firms’ Performance? A Comparative Study of Pakistan, India and Bangladesh (2016). International Journal of Economics and Empirical Research. 2016, 4(9), 450-464., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3229746
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,254
RANK
390,788
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies