Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why the Par Value of Share Matters to Investors

International Journal of Financial Studies

22 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2018 Last revised: 16 Mar 2021

Tadeusz Dudycz

Wroclaw University of Science and Technology, Faculty of Management

Brycz Bogumila

University of Economics, Wroclaw

Date Written: September 25, 2019

Abstract

This paper shows that although par value (also known as nominal value or face value) was created to secure the liabilities of creditors, it can be a useful tool for financing a company. The study is based on a sample of initial public offering firms which went public on the Warsaw Stock Exchange from 1998 to 2013. The study finds that an excess supply of shares has a negative impact on their valuation. In contrast, decreasing the par value prompts perceptual biases among investors beneficial to the success of the issuance. Thus, initial public offering companies strive to issue the number of shares within the expected range. Also, share capital is found to be a useful signalling tool to improve the company's position on the financial market.

Keywords: Par value, Share premium, Share capital, Signalling, perceptual biases, IPO, WSE, Face value, Nominal value, Biases

JEL Classification: G10, G32, G38, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Dudycz, Tadeusz and Bogumila, Brycz, Why the Par Value of Share Matters to Investors (September 25, 2019). International Journal of Financial Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3230706 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3230706
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Profitability: return on equity
Crossref
Asset productivity: sales-to-assets ratio (S/A)
Leverage: debt ratio (D/A) and the shareholder equity-to-fixed assets ratio (E/FA)
Liquidity: cash ratio (CR
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,228
RANK
730,194
3 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies