Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Female Representation on Boards and CEO Performance‐induced Turnover: Evidence from Russia

Corporate Governance: An International Review, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2018 Last revised: 25 Mar 2020

No Name

Minnesota State University

Yu Flora Kuang

University of Melbourne

Bo Qin

The University of Melbourne

Date Written: March 17, 2020

Abstract

This study examines the influence of female board representation on CEO turnover and firm value. We focus on Russia, a patriarchal country with vast gender differences, where empathy, patience, and supportiveness are considered fundamental qualities of females. Using a sample of public firms listed on the Moscow Exchange from 2006 to 2015, we find that female representation on boards is associated with lower CEO turnover–performance sensitivity. Further, female boards appear to add firm value, as we find that CEO retention decisions are associated with improved future firm value when the decision is made by a female board. Furthermore, we identify that female representation on boards is associated with greater diligence (i.e., hold more board meetings) after retaining their underperforming CEOs. Our findings suggest that female boards tend to develop a long‐term view of CEO performance, and that such boards exercise greater diligence and supportiveness, thereby adding shareholder value. Our study contributes to the research on what qualities of a board affect its decision making and effectiveness. We study Russia, where gender differences are prominent, and female representation occurs by happenstance rather than regulatorily intentionally. Our study contributes to the burgeoning research on corporate governance in Russia. Although the Russian economy has demonstrated unprecedented growth among emerging markets, research on corporate governance in Russia remains scarce. Our study is among the first efforts to understand how female boards perform in a patriarchal country. Our investigation, therefore, offers important insights for policymakers and practitioners.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Board Composition, Board Task Effectiveness, Russia

JEL Classification: G34, J64, M40, M50

Suggested Citation:

Name, No and Kuang, Yu and Qin, Bo, Female Representation on Boards and CEO Performance‐induced Turnover: Evidence from Russia (March 17, 2020). Corporate Governance: An International Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3231901 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3231901
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,449
RANK
622,944
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies