Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The End of 'Corporate' Governance: Hello 'Platform' Governance

Lex Research Topics in Corporate Law & Economics Working Paper No. 2018-5

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 430/2018

34 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2018 Last revised: 20 Dec 2018

Mark Fenwick

Kyushu University - Graduate School of Law

Joseph A. McCahery

Tilburg University - School of Law; European Banking Center (EBC); Tilburg Law and Economics Center (TILEC); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Erik P. M. Vermeulen

Tilburg University - Department of Business Law; Signify (formerly known as Philips Lighting) - Legal Department; Tilburg Law and Economics Center (TILEC); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Kyushu University - Graduate School of Law

Date Written: August 16, 2018

Abstract

In a technology-driven, digital world, many of the largest and most successful businesses now operate as “platforms.” Such firms leverage networked technologies to facilitate economic exchange, transfer information, connect people, and make predictions. Platform companies are already disrupting multiple industries, including retail, hotels, taxis, etc., and are aggressively moving into new sectors, such as financial services. This paper examines the distinctive features of this new business model and its implications for regulation, notably corporate governance. In particular, the paper suggests that a tension exists between the incentives created by modern corporate governance and the business needs of today’s platforms. The current regulatory framework promotes an unhealthy “corporate” attitude that is failing platforms, and a new direction (what we term “platform governance”) is urgently required. In identifying this new regulatory direction, the paper considers how firms might develop as successful platforms. Although there is no “one-size-fits-all” solution, the paper describes three interconnected strategies: (i) leveraging current and near-future digital technologies to create more “community-driven” forms of organization; (ii) building an “open and accessible platform culture,” and (iii) facilitating the creation, curation, and consumption of meaningful “content.” The paper concludes that jurisdictions that are most successful in designing new style “platform governance” based on the promotion of these strategies will be the primary beneficiaries of the digital transformation.

Keywords: Artificial Intelligence, Blockchain, Corporate Governance, Decentralization, Digital Transformation, Disclosure, Finance, Organizations, Platforms, Technology, Transparency

JEL Classification: D20, D24, D26, D85, G30, G34, J20, K20, K22, L17, L26, O16, O30, O31

Suggested Citation:

Fenwick, Mark and McCahery, Joseph A. and Vermeulen, Erik P.M., The End of 'Corporate' Governance: Hello 'Platform' Governance (August 16, 2018). Lex Research Topics in Corporate Law & Economics Working Paper No. 2018-5, European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 430/2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3232663 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3232663
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,054
RANK
17,021
7 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies