Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Devil is in the Detail? Investors’ Mispricing of Proxy Voting Outcomes on M&A Deals

34 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2018

Lingwei Li

Australian National University (ANU)

Huai Zhang

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Date Written: August 1, 2018

Abstract

Shareholders’ approval rates on M&A deals are informative, because they are predictive of the acquirer’s post-merger operating performance. Since the passing of the deal is salient information while the specific approval rate is not, investors may misprice the detailed voting outcome due to their limited attention. We find that post-merger abnormal stock returns are significantly higher for acquirers receiving higher approval rates: a one percentage point increase in the approval rate is associated with a 48 basis point increase in the market-adjusted stock return in the year after the merger is completed. Consistent with mispricing, the voting outcome reliably predicts post-merger earnings announcement returns and analyst forecast errors. What’s more, the association between the voting outcome and post-merger stock returns is stronger when investors’ attention to the voting outcome is distracted by same-day earnings announcements and when the marginal investor is less likely to be sophisticated. Overall, our results suggest that detailed proxy voting outcomes are neglected by investors.

Keywords: Market inefficiency, Shareholder voting, Mergers and acquisitions, Post-merger performance

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G34

Suggested Citation:

Li, Lingwei and Zhang, Huai, The Devil is in the Detail? Investors’ Mispricing of Proxy Voting Outcomes on M&A Deals (August 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3232839 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3232839
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,904
RANK
464,511
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies