Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Classroom to Boardroom: The Value of Academic Independent Directors

47 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2018 Last revised: 7 Feb 2020

Jiaren Pang

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Xinyi Zhang

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) - School of Business

Xi Zhou

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Date Written: November 1, 2017

Abstract

Academic independent directors account for a significant fraction of boards of directors and play important roles. Using Chinese data, we find that stock prices drop by 1.39% following unexpected resignations of academic independent directors due to the ambiguity of a regulation, and by 1.74% following another regulation that explicitly prohibits professors with administrative positions from serving as independent directors. Cross-sectional tests show that the market reacts more negatively when the affected academic director holds more subcommittee chair positions or directorships, assumes a position on the board before the current CEO is in charge, comes from a top-tier university, has high-quality foreign academic experience, or works for firms that are in greater need of monitoring and advisory services. The results from the two samples are broadly consistent. We also offer some explanations for the prevalence of academic independent directors in China. Overall, our results indicate that academic independent directors in China create value for shareholders through both monitoring and advising.

Keywords: Academic Independent Director, Board of Directors, Government Regulation, Document No. 18

JEL Classification: G30, G38

Suggested Citation:

Pang, Jiaren and Zhang, Xinyi and Zhou, Xi, From Classroom to Boardroom: The Value of Academic Independent Directors (November 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3232670 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3232670
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Renée B Adams
The Handbook of the Economics of Corporate Governance , p. 291 - 382 Posted: 2017
David B Audretsch , Maryann P Feldman
R&D spillovers and the geography of innovation and production
American Economic Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 630 - 640 Posted: 1996
David B Audretsch , Paula E Stephan
Company-Scientist locational links: The case of biotechnology
American Economic Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 641 - 652 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Nicholas Bloom , Benn Eifert , Aprajit Mahajan , David Mckenzie , John Roberts
Does management matter? Evidence from India
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 128 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
368
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,713
RANK
185,154
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies