Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure of Mutual Fund Holdings and Insider Trading Profitability

61 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2018

Karthik Balakrishnan

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Tathagat Mukhopadhyay

Cornerstone Research

Lakshmanan Shivakumar

London Business School

Date Written: August 17, 2018

Abstract

We show that the 2004 SEC regulation requiring more frequent disclosures from active mutual funds unintendedly increased the profitability of trading by another set of informed investors, namely insiders. Cross-sectional analyses suggest that this increase in insiders’ profits is due to mutual funds’ reduced incentives to collect costly long-term information. We do not find evidence that this effect is driven by either liquidity changes or changes in the opportunities for insiders to learn from fund disclosures. While the greater profitability could reflect insiders’ opportunism, it could potentially relieve firms from short-term pressures exerted by myopic investors affected by the regulation.

Suggested Citation:

Balakrishnan, Karthik and Mukhopadhyay, Tathagat and Shivakumar, Lakshmanan, Disclosure of Mutual Fund Holdings and Insider Trading Profitability (August 17, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3233641 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3233641
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
V Agarwal , K Mullally , Y Tang , B Yang
Mandatory portfolio disclosure, stock liquidity and mutual fund performance
Journal of Finance , volume 70 , issue 6 , p. 2733 - 2776 Posted: 2015
Crossref
V Agarwal , R Vashishtha , M Venkatachalam
Mutual fund transparency and corporate myopia
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 31 , issue 5 , p. 1966 - 2003 Posted: 2018
Crossref
A Ali , K D Wei , Y Zhou
Insider trading and option grant timing in response to fire sales (and purchases) of stocks by mutual funds
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 49 , issue 3 , p. 595 - 632 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S Arif , A Ben-Rephael , C M C Lee
Mutual Funds and short sellers: Why does short-sale volume predict stock returns? Working paper Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,785
RANK
240,980
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies