Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Compensation Committees Do What They Say They Do? Evidence from Compensation Philosophy Disclosed in Proxy Statements

Posted: 18 Aug 2018

Natalie Kyung Won Kim

Seoul National University - College of Business Administration

Sewon Kwon

Ewha Womans University-School of business

Jae Yong Shin

Seoul National University - College of Business Administration

Date Written: August 17, 2018

Abstract

Based on textual analysis of hand-collected Compensation Philosophy data disclosed in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis (CD&A) section of the proxy statement of S&P500 firms from 2006 to 2015, we investigate whether the Compensation Committee sets executive compensation according to the Compensation Philosophy. We identify agency theory and resource dependence theory as the main themes of the Compensation Philosophy and analyze how emphasis on these theoretical perspectives translates into the executive compensation package. We find that emphasis on resource dependence theory themes does lead to corresponding executive compensation, but we do not find any significant association between agency theory themes and executive compensation. We interpret this insignificant relationship as an act of symbolism by the Compensation Committee in order to establish its legitimacy in the eyes of stakeholders. We draw on institutional theory to explain the decoupling of substance and symbolism in the implementation of the Compensation Philosophy.

Keywords: Compensation Committee, Compensation Philosophy, Executive Compensation

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Natalie Kyung Won and Kwon, Sewon and Shin, Jae Yong, Do Compensation Committees Do What They Say They Do? Evidence from Compensation Philosophy Disclosed in Proxy Statements (August 17, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3233898 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3233898
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,780
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies