Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stewardship Value of Income Statement Classifications: An Empirical Examination

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, 2018

Posted: 29 Aug 2018

Avinash Arya

William Paterson University

Neerav Nagar

Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad

Date Written: August 17, 2018

Abstract

This study investigates the use of earnings components in setting CEO compensation and explores how persistence and controllability affect it. The results indicate that compensation committees do accord differential treatment to earnings components based on their persistence and controllability. Among above the line items, income from continuing items, the most persistent item, also receives the most weight, followed by special items which have smaller persistence. Further, these weights vary across firms in different stages of life cycle in a manner that mirrors variations in their informativeness and persistence. Among below the line items, discontinued items, which are at least under partial control of the CEO receive a positive weight. Except extraordinary items which are largely uncontrollable, we find no evidence that CEOs are shielded from the income-decreasing effects of any of the earnings components.

Keywords: Earnings Persistence, Controllability Principle, Special Items, Discontinued Operations, Extraordinary Items, Income Statement Classification, Executive Compensation, Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Firm Life Cycle

Suggested Citation:

Arya, Avinash and Nagar, Neerav, Stewardship Value of Income Statement Classifications: An Empirical Examination (August 17, 2018). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3233516
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
839
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies