Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CFO Overconfidence and Cost Behavior

Journal of Management Accounting Research (http://aaapubs.org/)

44 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2018 Last revised: 12 Aug 2021

Clara Xiaoling Chen

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Julia Nasev

Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich

Steve Wu

The University of Hong Kong - School of Business

Date Written: February 18, 2021

Abstract

Using a large sample of U.S. firms, we provide evidence of the effect of CFO overconfidence on firms’ resource adjustment decisions. After controlling for CEO overconfidence, we find that CFO overconfidence is positively associated with cost stickiness. In addition, we find that CFO power relative to the CEO increases the positive association between CFO overconfidence and cost stickiness. Our study contributes to our understanding of the important role of CFOs in operational decisions such as resource adjustment decisions. We also extend the literature on cost behavior by highlighting managerial characteristics as an important determinant of resource adjustment decisions. Our study has important practical implications. Unlike resource adjustment decisions driven by agency problems or other incentive-related issues, such decisions driven by managerial overconfidence cannot be addressed with incentive contract designs. More promising ways to mitigate overconfidence-driven resource adjustment decisions include making overconfident managers aware of their potential behavioral biases and challenging their expectations.



Keywords: Managerial characteristics, CFO, overconfidence, cost stickiness, cost behavior

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Clara Xiaoling and Nasev, Julia and Wu, Steve, CFO Overconfidence and Cost Behavior (February 18, 2021). Journal of Management Accounting Research (http://aaapubs.org/), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3233106 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3233106
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
633
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,237
RANK
96,501
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies