Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Say-on-Pay Voting and CEO Compensation Structure

53 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2018 Last revised: 30 Aug 2018

Andrea Pawliczek

University of Colorado at Boulder

Date Written: August 17, 2018

Abstract

I examine how the structure of CEO compensation affects Say-on-Pay (SOP) voting and how SOP outcomes influence subsequent changes to compensation structure. I find that voting dissent decreases as the percent of performance sensitive compensation including equity and non-equity incentive increases. Additionally, investors vote more favorably when equity comes in the form of performance-vested equity or stock options as opposed to time-vested restricted stock. Subsequent to higher levels of voting dissent, however, I do not find that firms make changes to align compensation structure with investor preferences for more performance sensitive compensation as expressed through prior voting. Instead, I find that firms with greater SOP voting dissent in the prior year tend to increase performance-vested equity and decrease stock options in CEO compensation. A 20% increase in votes “Against” in the prior year SOP vote is associated with a 3.9% increase in performance-vested equity as a percent of total compensation and a 2.3% decrease in stock options. These results demonstrate that, while SOP voting is influencing compensation structure, it is not clear that these changes are resulting in more performance sensitive compensation.

Keywords: Executive Compensation, Say-on-Pay, Shareholder Voting, Equity Compensation, Performance-Vested Equity

JEL Classification: G38, M12, M52

Suggested Citation:

Pawliczek, Andrea, Say-on-Pay Voting and CEO Compensation Structure (August 17, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3233886 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3233886
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Christopher S Armstrong , D Ian , David F Gow , Larcker
The Efficacy of Shareholder Voting: Evidence from Equity Compensation Plans
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 5 , p. 909 - 950 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S Balsam , J Boone , H Liu , J Yin
The impact of say-on-pay on executive compensation
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 162 - 191 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J Bettis , John M Carr , Jeffrey L Bizjak , Swaminathan L Coles , Kalpathy
Performance-Vesting Provisions in Executive Compensation
Journal of Accounting and Economics Advance online publication Posted: 2018
Crossref
J L Coles , N D Daniel , L Naveen
Managerial Incentives and RiskTaking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 79 , p. 431 - 468 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,822
RANK
255,414
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies