Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between Board-Level Technology Committees and Reported Security Breaches

Journal of Information Systems, Vol. 30, No. 3, 2016

45 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2018

Julia L. Higgs

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Robert E. Pinsker

Florida Atlantic University

Thomas Joseph Smith

University of South Florida

George Young

Independent

Date Written: January 23, 2016

Abstract

After several high-profile data security breaches (e.g., Target Corporation, Michaels, Home Depot), corporate boards are prioritizing oversight of Information Technology (IT) risk. Firms are also increasingly faced with disclosure decisions regarding IT security breaches. This study proposes that firms can use the creation of a board-level technology committee as part of the firm’s information technology governance (ITG) to signal the firm’s ability to detect and respond to security breaches. Using reported security breaches during the time period 2005-2014, results indicate that firms with technology committees are more likely to have reported breaches in a given year than are firms without the committee. Further analysis suggests that this positive association is driven by relatively young technology committees and external source breaches. Specifically, as a technology committee becomes more established, its firm is not as likely to be breached. To obtain further evidence on the perceived value of a technology committee, this study uses a returns analysis and finds that the presence of a technology committee mitigates the negative abnormal stock returns arising from external breaches. Findings add to the evolving ITG literature, as well to the signaling theory and disclosure literatures.

Keywords: governance, breach, disclosure, technology committee, security

Suggested Citation:

Higgs, Julia L. and Pinsker, Robert E. and Smith, Thomas Joseph and Young, George, The Relationship between Board-Level Technology Committees and Reported Security Breaches (January 23, 2016). Journal of Information Systems, Vol. 30, No. 3, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3234337
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
415
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,920
RANK
161,650
3 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies