Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Supplier Industry Competition on Pay-for-Performance Incentive Intensity

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2018 Last revised: 1 Feb 2021

Mary Ellen Carter

Boston College - Department of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Jen Choi

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Accounting

Karen Sedatole

Goizueta Business School

Date Written: November 1, 2020

Abstract

We examine how competition in supplier industries affects CEO incentive intensity in procuring firms. Using the Input-Output Accounts Data published by the Bureau of Economic Analysis, we compute a weighted supplier industry competition measure. We then predict and find that higher supplier competition is associated with stronger CEO pay-for-performance incentive intensity. This effect is incremental to the effect of competition in the firm’s own industry documented in prior research and is robust to using alternative measures of supplier competition as well as to exogenous shocks to competition. Importantly, we show that performance risk and product margin act as mediating variables in the relation between supplier competition and CEO incentive intensity providing support for the theory underpinning our finding. We document that CEO compensation contracts are used as a mechanism to exploit the market dynamics of upstream industries to a firm’s benefit. Our findings are economically important as external suppliers provide, on average, 45 percent of the value delivered by procuring firms to the market (BEA 2016).

Keywords: industry competition, executive compensation, pay-for-performance incentives

JEL Classification: M1, M4

Suggested Citation:

Carter, Mary Ellen and Choi, Jae Eun and Sedatole, Karen, The Effect of Supplier Industry Competition on Pay-for-Performance Incentive Intensity (November 1, 2020). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3234064 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3234064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple Regression: Testing and Interpreting Interactions Posted: 1991
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
The Other Side of the Trade-Off: The Impact of Risk on Executive Compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A Albuquerque , G Papadakis , P Wysocki
The impact of risk on CEO equity incentives: Evidence from customer concentration Posted: 2014
S A Anderson , M H Christ , H C Dekker , K L Sedatole
The use of management controls to mitigate risk in strategic alliances: Field and survey evidence
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
403
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,051
RANK
167,146
12 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies