Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Modeling Correlation between Shareholders Dividends and Corporate Performance in Nigeria

Udeh, F. N., Abiahu, M. C. & Ogbekhilu, M.E. (2018). Proceedings of 4th Annual International Academic Conference of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria.

25 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2018 Last revised: 3 Sep 2018

Dr. Francis Udeh

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem Abiahu

CIBN Centre for Financial Studies

Marvel Ejefu Ogbekhilu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: June 30, 2018

Abstract

This study examined the Modeling Correlation between Shareholders Dividend and Corporate Performance in Nigeria. The study employed the ex post-facto research design. To obtain answers on the research questions and to test the hypotheses formulated, data were obtained from annual reports of companies listed on the floor of the Nigeria Stock Exchange (NSE) that disclosed a comparative statement for the period of 2010 to 2016. The data collected were analyzed using descriptive statistics. Specifically, Simple Regression Analysis and paired sample t-test statistics were used to analyze the data. The results showed that there is no significant correlation between shareholders dividend payout and the explanatory variables in the model. This results taken as a whole indicates that banks pay dividend in Nigeria with the intention of reducing the agency conflict and maintaining firms’ reputation. The study recommended that since the payment of dividend indicates the firm having a good earnings capacity, management should maintain a steady increase in earnings, cash flow and dividend payment and establish a dividend policy that can be acceptable by various stakeholders.

Keywords: dividend payout, bird-in-the-hand theory, and corporate performance

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Udeh, Francis and Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem and Ogbekhilu, Marvel Ejefu, Modeling Correlation between Shareholders Dividends and Corporate Performance in Nigeria (June 30, 2018). Udeh, F. N., Abiahu, M. C. & Ogbekhilu, M.E. (2018). Proceedings of 4th Annual International Academic Conference of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3235417
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,112
RANK
692,403
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies