Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forestalling Ingenious Approach to Financial Reporting in Post IFRS Regime in Dangote Cement Company Nigeria PLC

Okoye, E. I., Nwoye, U.J., Abiahu, M.-F.C. (2018). Forestalling Ingenious Approach to Financial Reporting in Post IFRS Regime in Dangote Cement Company Nigeria PLC, International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences 8 (2): 259-271. DOI: 10.6007/IJARAFMS/v8-i2/4

13 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2018

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Dr. Ugochukwu Nwoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy, Students

Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem Abiahu

CIBN Centre for Financial Studies

Date Written: August 6, 2018

Abstract

This research work focused on the role played by predictive models in proactively forestalling ingenious approaches otherwise known as creative accounting to IFRS based financial reporting practices of manufacturing companies. It examined the contributions made by the predictive models in predicting creative accounting practices in the selected manufacturing company in Nigeria, while making further effort at determining whether or not the predictive capabilities of the Beneish 8-Predictive variables and the Altman model differ significantly. The research work was quantitatively designed. Dangote Cement Plc, the only Nigerian manufacturing company that made the list of Forbes 2015 top 2000 companies in the world was purposively and judgmentally sampled. Thus, data obtained from secondary sources comprising Annual Reports and Audited Accounts of Dangote Cement Nigeria Plc (2000–2015), published journals, Articles, Inaugural lectures etc, were used for the successful completion of this work. Inputs from the Annual Reports and Accounts were analysed with the aid of Beneish 8-Predictive variables and Altman model using the Multiple Regression Analysis, and Wilxocon statistical techniques. The result of the analyses showed that the Beneish 8-Predictive variables made significant contributions in predicting possible Creative Accounting practices in Dangote Cement Nigeria Plc. It also found that there was no significant difference in the predictive capability of the Beneish 8-Predictive variables and the Altman Z-score model when jointly applied in predicting possible tendencies of Creative Accounting practices in publicly listed manufacturing companies in Nigeria. As a result, the study recommended that Professional Accountants and the Internal Auditors in Dangote Cement Company Plc need to tighten up their audit belt firmly and sceptically through the individual or joint discrete application of multiple Creative Accounting predictive and deterrence models/ratios to ensure that greater emphasis is also placed on the data integrity/quality of the financial reports and not just on their IFRS disclosure qualities.

Keywords: Altman Model, Beneish 8-Predictive Variables, Creative Accounting Practices, Dangote Cement Company, Financial Data Integrity, IFRS

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu and Nwoye, Dr. Ugochukwu and Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem, Forestalling Ingenious Approach to Financial Reporting in Post IFRS Regime in Dangote Cement Company Nigeria PLC (August 6, 2018). Okoye, E. I., Nwoye, U.J., Abiahu, M.-F.C. (2018). Forestalling Ingenious Approach to Financial Reporting in Post IFRS Regime in Dangote Cement Company Nigeria PLC, International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences 8 (2): 259-271. DOI: 10.6007/IJARAFMS/v8-i2/4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3236506
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
J Abu , S L Adetula
Creative accounting practice: Implication on investors
Journal of Educational Research in Natural and Social Sciences (JERNASS) , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 109 - 119 Posted: 2015
C O Akenbor , E A L Ibanichuka
Creative accounting practices in Nigerian Banks
International Multidisciplinary Journal , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 23 - 41 Posted: 2012
Crossref
E Altman
Predicting financial distress of companies: Revisiting the Z-score and ZETA models Posted: 2000
Crossref
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , E Rouen
Financial statement errors: Evidence from the distributional properties of financial statement numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1540 - 1593 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,594
RANK
653,768
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies