Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance by Dividends

107 Iowa Law Review 117 (2021)

55 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2018 Last revised: 24 Nov 2021

Geeyoung Min

Michigan State University - College of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: September 13, 2018

Abstract

For dual-class companies, which offer two or more classes of stock with differential voting rights, stock dividends have become a potent weapon for corporate boards to reallocate voting control without shareholder intervention. For example, the board of CBS Corporation proposed to distribute voting stock to all shareholders to drastically dilute the controlling shareholders’ voting power. In contrast, the Google board issued new non- voting stock to all shareholders to perpetuate the controlling shareholders’ lock on control. In both cases, the proportional distribution of the identical stock seemingly treats all shareholders equally, but it has a starkly unequal impact on each class’s voting power. Are such governance changes by stock dividends within board discretion?

The level of board discretion in making stock dividends is primarily governed by each company’s corporate charter. This Article presents the original, hand- collected data of charter provisions on stock dividends from 237 dual-class companies. The analysis of the charter provisions shows diverse approaches to stock dividends across companies, and it is unclear how much contractual freedom on stock dividends should be allowed. At the same time, courts have long treated dividends as subject to boards’ business judgment and declined to second-guess their substantive merits if they are allocated pro rata. Given the potential impact on corporate governance, the need for a distinctive treatment of stock dividends is long overdue.

Building on these findings, this Article also offers normative suggestions. First, as an ex-ante mechanism, state corporate statutes can provide a set of default provisions on stock dividends to guide companies. Second, as an ex- post remedy, the business judgment rule protection should be limited to the narrowly defined pro rata stock dividends (i.e., proportional distribution within the same class of stock) and non-pro rata stock dividends approved by each class of shareholders separately.

Keywords: Stock Dividends, Business Judgment Rule, Enhanced Judicial Review, Corporate Charters, Corporate Bylaws, Shareholder Voting, Capital Structure

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Min, Geeyoung, Governance by Dividends (September 13, 2018). 107 Iowa Law Review 117 (2021) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3237752 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3237752
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
285
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,183
RANK
244,478
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies