Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economic Consequences of Tightening Insider Trading Regulation: Evidence from Hong Kong

54 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2018 Last revised: 5 Feb 2020

Zhihong Chen

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology

Yuyan Guan

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Bin Ke

National University of Singapore; Independent

Date Written: February 4, 2020

Abstract

Using a lobbying event that led to the unexpected reversal of a tougher insider trading blackout regulation in Hong Kong, we examine whether tightening insider trading regulation increases shareholder value. We find that repealing the regulation increases shareholder value for the entire Hong Kong stock market. The increase is greater for the lobbying firms, which are more affected by the regulation. We find no evidence to support the allegations made by the proponents of the regulation that insiders of lobbying firms trade more aggressively on future earnings news in the proposed new blackout period or delay earnings announcements. Supporting the argument made by the critics of the regulation, we find that lobbying firms’ insiders trade more aggressively in the proposed new blackout period to stabilize their firms’ stock prices in times of stock price turmoil. Our results suggest caution in imposing tougher insider trading regulation.

Keywords: insider trading regulation, blackout window, shareholder value, Hong Kong

JEL Classification: G14, G18, G38

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Zhihong and Guan, Yuyan and Ke, Bin, The Economic Consequences of Tightening Insider Trading Regulation: Evidence from Hong Kong (February 4, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3237234 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3237234
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
330
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,371
RANK
208,776
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies