Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Political Connections Affect the Role of Independent Audit Committees and CEO Duality? Some Evidence from Malaysian Audit Pricing

Bliss, M.A., Gul, F.A., Majid, A. 2011. Do Political Connections Affect the Role of Independent Audit Committees and CEO Duality? Some Evidence from Malaysian Audit Pricing, Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics 7, 82-98.

Posted: 1 Sep 2018

Mark Bliss

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Ferdinand A. Gul

Deakin University - Department of Accounting

Abdul Majid

Monash University

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

This study examines whether political connection to firms affects the association between audit committee independence and demand for higher quality audits. In line with Carcello et al. (2002), our findings show that there is a positive association between audit committee independence and audit fees thus supporting the hypothesis that more independent audit committees demand higher audit quality. However, we find that this relationship is weaker for politically connected (PCON) firms suggesting that the independence of audit committees in Malaysian PCON firms may be compromised. Additionally, we provide evidence that PCON firms that have CEO duality are perceived by audit firms as being of higher risk than CEO duality firms without political connection.

Keywords: Political connection, Audit committees, CEO duality, Audit fee pricing

JEL Classification: D72, G34, M42

Suggested Citation:

Bliss, Mark and Gul, Ferdinand A. and Majid, Abdul, Do Political Connections Affect the Role of Independent Audit Committees and CEO Duality? Some Evidence from Malaysian Audit Pricing (2011). Bliss, M.A., Gul, F.A., Majid, A. 2011. Do Political Connections Affect the Role of Independent Audit Committees and CEO Duality? Some Evidence from Malaysian Audit Pricing, Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics 7, 82-98., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3237272
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,096
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies