Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Corporate Governance Reporting in the European Union

Camilleri, M.A. (2018). The Corporate Governance Reporting in the European Union. In Cooper, C. Driving Productivity in Uncertain and Challenging Times. (University of the West of England, 5th September). British Academy of Management, UK.

18 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2018

Mark Anthony Camilleri

University of Malta

Date Written: September 5, 2018

Abstract

The latest European Union’s (EU) guiding policies are encouraging big businesses and state-owned organisations to disclose their environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance. Many European member states have transposed the EU’s directive 2014/95/EU on non-financial reporting. This directive has presented a significant step forward toward the as its “comply or explain” approach has encouraged organisations to disclose a true and fair view on their organisations’ financial and ESG capitals. Hence, this paper makes specific reference to some of the corporations’ best practices as it identifies areas for improvement in corporate governance issues. It explains how three major European banks are following the recommendations of their national regulatory institution, as they have reviewed the roles and responsibilities of the corporate boards and management. In many cases, they have anticipated the regulatory, legal, contractual, social and market-driven obligations. This contribution contends that there are significant implications for financial services corporations who intend following the right path toward responsible corporate governance and ethical behaviours.

Keywords: corporate governance, corporate communication, corporations, corporate social responsibility, Europe, Banks, Financial Services

JEL Classification: M00, M10, M14, M16, M30, M31, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Camilleri, Mark, The Corporate Governance Reporting in the European Union (September 5, 2018). Camilleri, M.A. (2018). The Corporate Governance Reporting in the European Union. In Cooper, C. Driving Productivity in Uncertain and Challenging Times. (University of the West of England, 5th September). British Academy of Management, UK., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3238662
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , D V Rama
Corporate governance, audit quality, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: Evidence from internal audit outsourcing
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , issue 4 , p. 803 - 835 Posted: 2007
Crossref
V V Acharya , P F Volpin
Corporate governance externalities*. Review of Finance Posted: 2009
C Adams
Internal organisational factors influencing corporate social and ethical reporting: Beyond current theorizing
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 250 Posted: 2002
Crossref
S B Banerjee
Corporate social responsibility: The good, the bad and the ugly
Critical sociology , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 79 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
344
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,239
RANK
199,490
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies