Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Tax Aggressiveness, Firm Size, and Foreign Ownership to Social Responsibility

Grandis, W. and Panggabean, R.R. (2018). The Impact of Tax Aggressiveness, Firm Size, and Foreign Ownership to Social Responsibility. Jurnal Ilmiah Akuntansi Universitas Pamulang Vol 6, No 2 (2018).

9 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2018

Winny Grandis

Bina Nusantara University (BINUS)

Rosinta Ria Panggabean

Accounting Department, Faculty of Economics and Communication, Bina Nusantara University

Date Written: May 27, 2017

Abstract

Mining companies in Indonesia are companies that explore natural resources as a source of income for the company. The use of mining companies for this study is because the activities undertaken by these companies related to waste and environmental pollution so that the level of industrial risk and environmental damage becomes high. The purpose of this study is to analyze the impact of the tax aggressiveness (ETR), firm size (SIZE), and foreign ownership (FOCI) to corporate social responsibility (CSR) of the mining companies. The population in this study are the mining companies which were listed in Indonesia Stock Exchange from year 2010 to 2015. This study uses tax aggressiveness, firm size, and foreign ownership as independent variables; profitability, leverage, and market-to-book ratio as control variables; and also corporate social responsibility as dependent variable. There are 9 samples of mining companies which produced 54 data using purposive sampling technique. This study use logistic regression method. This study uses E-views 9 and Microsoft Excel 2007 for data processing. The results showed that the firm size (SIZE) has a significant effect on the company's CSR, while tax aggressiveness and foreign ownership have no significant effect on company’s CSR. This results indicate that the bigger the size of a company will cause greater activities and influences in the society, which make companies pay more attention to social programs and social responsibility disclosures.

Keywords: Tax Aggressiveness, Corporate Social Responsibility, Mining Companies

JEL Classification: M14, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Grandis, Winny and Panggabean, Rosinta Ria, The Impact of Tax Aggressiveness, Firm Size, and Foreign Ownership to Social Responsibility (May 27, 2017). Grandis, W. and Panggabean, R.R. (2018). The Impact of Tax Aggressiveness, Firm Size, and Foreign Ownership to Social Responsibility. Jurnal Ilmiah Akuntansi Universitas Pamulang Vol 6, No 2 (2018)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3239406
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,589
RANK
333,065
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies