Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond Conventional Boundaries: Corporate Governance as Inspiration for Critical Accounting Research

Critical Perspectives on Accouting, Vol. 55, 2018

20 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2018

Yves Gendron

Université Laval

Date Written: August 26, 2018

Abstract

Drawing on my research (with colleagues) in the corporate governance area, I reflect on the development of intellectual trajectories within the critical accounting research project. Recognizing that the boundaries surrounding critical research are quite hazy and fluctuating, the role of epistemological guidance, methodological flexibility, chance encounters and theoretical bricolage in the production of critical accounting inquiries is underlined. Importantly, the studies that I review demonstrate that corporate governance settings constitute privileged sites to investigate power and marginalization processes. Focused on the backstage of corporate governance, these studies bring to the fore two key processes through which power and marginalization operate at the board level. The first relates to the constitution and propagation of myths. The second consists of board members whose reflective skills are kept underdeveloped. From a forward looking perspective, I especially seek to encourage the future development of critical research on corporate governance in ways that break the mold of gap-spotting research. In particular, I maintain that critical academics may benefit significantly, when elaborating their research endeavors, from considering further two central questions: corporate governance for whom; and corporate governance for what?

Keywords: audit committees and compensation committees, board of directors, box-breaking research, corporate governance, critical accounting research, marginalization

JEL Classification: G34, M14, M40, B5

Suggested Citation:

Gendron, Yves, Beyond Conventional Boundaries: Corporate Governance as Inspiration for Critical Accounting Research (August 26, 2018). Critical Perspectives on Accouting, Vol. 55, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3239045
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
M Alvesson , J Sandberg
Has management studies lost its way? Ideas for more imaginative and innovative research
Journal of Management Studies , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 128 - 152 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Alvesson , J Sandberg
Habitat and habitus: Boxed-in versus box-breaking research
Organization Studies , volume 35 , issue 7 , p. 967 - 987 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Alvesson , A Spicer
A stupidity-based theory of organizations
Journal of Management Studies , volume 49 , issue 7 , p. 1194 - 1220 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M Alvesson , A Spicer
Un)conditional surrender? Why do professionals willingly comply with managerialism
Journal of Organizational Change Management , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 45 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Herman van Brenk , Remko Renes , Gregory Trompeter
Auditing in the Public Interest: Reforming the Profession by Building on the Strengths of the Existing Accounting Firms
Critical Perspectives on Accouting, Forthcoming · 56 Pages · Posted: 2 Oct 2019 · Last revised: 26 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 187
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yves Gendron , Anna Samsonova-Taddei , Henri Guénin
Making Sense of Risk Management as a (Dis)comfort-Inducing Practice
Gendron, Y., Samsonova-Taddei, A, and Guénin, H., Making sense of risk management as a (dis)comfort-inducing practice. Behavioral Research in Accounting, (Forthcoming)., · 50 Pages · Posted: 20 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 196
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,725
RANK
609,870
2 Citations
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies