Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Disclosure Index–Executive Pay Nexus: The Moderating Effect of Governance Mechanisms

European Management Review Journal, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2018

Mohamed Elmagrhi

University of Huddersfield, Huddersfield Business School, Queensgate, Huddersfield, HD1 3DH; Swansea University, School of Management; University of Huddersfield - Business School

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Yan Wang

Leicester Business School, De Montfort University

Hussein A. Abdou

Northumbria University; Department of Management, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Alaa Zalata

University of Southampton - Southampton Business School

Date Written: August 13, 2018

Abstract

This paper first employs principal component analysis technique to develop and introduce an alternative UK corporate governance disclosure index to the US-centric ones. Second, we then investigate whether this new corporate governance disclosure index can determine the level of executive pay (including CEOs, CFOs, and all executive directors) in UK listed firms, and consequently ascertain whether the governance mechanisms can moderate the pay-for-performance sensitivity. Employing data on corporate governance, executive pay and performance from 2008 to 2013, we find that, on average, better-governed firms, tend to pay their executives lower compared with their poorly-governed counterparts. Additionally, our findings suggest that the pay-for-performance sensitivity is generally positive, but improves in firms with high corporate governance quality, implying that the pay-for-performance sensitivity is contingent on the quality of internal governance structures. We interpret our findings within the predictions of optimal contracting theory and managerial power hypothesis.

Keywords: corporate governance disclosure index; corporate performance; executive pay; endogeneity; principal component analysis, UK combined code

Suggested Citation:

Elmagrhi, Mohamed and Elmagrhi, Mohamed and Ntim, Collins G. and Wang, Yan and Abdou, Hussein A. and Zalata, Alaa, Corporate Governance Disclosure Index–Executive Pay Nexus: The Moderating Effect of Governance Mechanisms (August 13, 2018). European Management Review Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3239334
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,158
RANK
785,362
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies