Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Effective Boc on Choice of Auditor

Pertanika J. Soc. Sci. & Hum. 25 (S): 271 - 280 (2017)

10 Pages Posted: 11 May 2022

Badingatus Solikhah

Universitas Negeri Semarang

Nicco Della Firmansyah

Semarang State University

Kashan Pirzada

University Utara Malaysia, Malaysia; Global Academy of Training & Research (GATR)

Date Written: October 1, 2017

Abstract

The role of board of commissioner in choosing an auditor has increased significantly as a result of 2008 global financial crisis of 2008. This paper examines whether the effectiveness of the BOC (BOC) affects the choice of an auditor. Past research related to the internal mechanisms of Good Corporate Governance (GCG) used the number of commissioners, the proportion of independent commissioners and the number of board meetings as indicators. However, this paper measures the effectiveness of board of commissioners (BOC) by conducting content analysis technique based on the level of independence of the commissioners, board activity, and the number of members, expertise and competence. A sample of 218 companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange between 2013 and 2014 were selected. In this study, descriptive statistics and linear regression models were used for the purpose of revealing the significance of the variables. The results show that companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange have an effective BOC in accordance with related administrative regulations. In addition, the effectiveness of the BOC has a positive effect on the choice of auditor.

Keywords: Auditor, Board of Commissioners, Effective, Good Corporate Governance, Indonesia

Suggested Citation:

Solikhah, Badingatus and Firmansyah, Nicco Della and Pirzada, Kashan, The Influence of Effective Boc on Choice of Auditor (October 1, 2017). Pertanika J. Soc. Sci. & Hum. 25 (S): 271 - 280 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3239928
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
J Abor
Corporate governance and financing decisions of Ghananian listed firms
Corporate Governance , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 92 Posted: 2007
ASEAN corporate governance scorecard: Country reports and assessments 2013-2014 Posted: 2014
S Darmadi
Ownership concentation, familiy control, and auditor choice: Evidence from an emerging market
Asian Review Accounting , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 19 - 42 Posted: 2016
L E Deangelo
Auditor size and audit quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 3 , p. 183 - 199 Posted: 1981
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
586
RANK
826,677
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies