Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Activists Meet Controlling Shareholders in the Shadow of the Law: A Case Study of Hong Kong

14(1) Asian Journal of Comparative Law 1-36 (2019)

Centre for Chinese & Comparative Law Research Paper

39 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2018 Last revised: 14 Oct 2019

Lauren Yu-Hsin Lin

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - School of Law; City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Centre for Chinese & Comparative Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: August 29, 2018

Abstract

Shareholder activism has changed corporate governance around the world in the past decade. Conventional wisdom holds that shareholder activism is only effective in firms with dispersed ownership; there has been much less discussion on whether and how activism would work in firms with controlling shareholders. This article fills this gap by investigating whether and how legal mechanisms influence strategy planning and activism outcomes based on hand-collected data regarding activists’ initiatives against firms with concentrated ownership in Hong Kong from 2003 to 2017. This article finds that cases using formal legal mechanisms appear to have had a higher success rate. Among the legal tools available, minority veto rights are the most popular mechanism used by activists in Hong Kong, and are quite effective in leveraging their position in controlled firms. Furthermore, the availability of legal remedies and the ownership level of controlling shareholders are factors that influence activists’ strategies. Most activist initiatives against controlled firms involve corporate governance disputes where activists can rely on legal protection to enhance their bargaining position. On the other hand, activists tend not to make their demands public, and they also avoid exercising legal rights when controlling shareholders control the majority of the shares.

Keywords: Shareholder Activism, Controlling Shareholder, Minority Veto Rights

JEL Classification: K20, K22

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Lauren Yu-Hsin, When Activists Meet Controlling Shareholders in the Shadow of the Law: A Case Study of Hong Kong (August 29, 2018). 14(1) Asian Journal of Comparative Law 1-36 (2019), Centre for Chinese & Comparative Law Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3240585
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Listing Rules (Listing Regime Enhancements) Instrument
Financial Conduct Authority Posted: 2014
Hamdani Bebchuk
, p. 1290 - 1292
Crossref
Scholars have advocated enhancing the power of active shareholders as a way to constrain the power of controlling shareholders in dual-class share firms
Suneela Jain , Ethan Klingsberg , Neil Whoriskey
Examining Data Points in Minority Buy-Outs: A Practitioners' Report' (2011) 36 Delaware Journal of Corporate Law 939
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
368
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,366
RANK
185,154
2 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies