Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inexperienced Component Auditors and the Internal Information Asymmetry of Multinational Corporations

Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, Forthcoming

University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper No. 18-30

42 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2018 Last revised: 15 Jul 2022

Tom Adams

La Salle University

Ying Zhou

University of Connecticut

Date Written: March 26, 2022

Abstract

With the global expansion of business operations, many U.S. corporations now operate internationally. While these multinational corporations (MNCs) rely on information about their operations to allocate resources, this information is likely dispersed within the firm, leading to internal information asymmetry between top executives and divisional managers. Meanwhile, audits of these geographically dispersed MNCs are challenging, and parts of these audits are sometimes outsourced to local foreign auditors who have no experience serving as opinion-issuing auditors for U.S. issuers (“inexperienced component auditors”). In this paper, we examine whether involving such inexperienced component auditors is associated with MNCs’ internal information environment. We find that, relative to a matched control sample, SEC issuers with the participation of inexperienced component auditors have higher internal information asymmetry and lower internal capital allocation efficiency. Our results suggest that audit quality matters not only to a firm’s external financial statement users but also to its internal users.

Keywords: Component Auditor, Internal Information Asymmetry, Internal Capital Allocation Efficiency, Audit Quality, Group Audits

JEL Classification: G31, M42

Suggested Citation:

Adams, Thomas and Zhou, Ying, Inexperienced Component Auditors and the Internal Information Asymmetry of Multinational Corporations (March 26, 2022). Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, Forthcoming, University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper No. 18-30, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3240002 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3240002
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
316
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,430
RANK
218,958
2 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies