Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Overconfidence, Compensation Induced Risk Taking, and Earnings Management

The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 12 (2) p. 1-26

26 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2019

Chun An Li

National Yunlin University of Science and Technology

Tse-Mao Lin

National Yunlin University of Science and Technology

Yu Wen Huang

National Yunlin University of Science and Technology

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

This study examined Taiwanese listed company and OTC (Over-the-Counter) firms to explore empirically managerial overconfidence and compensation incentives induced risk-taking, and the impact on accrualbased earnings management (AEM) and real earnings management (REM). The study results show that overconfident managers are more likely to adopt REM than AEM. Compensation induced Delta risk-taking is irrelevant to AEM but could lower the propensity for REM, and compensation induced Vega risk-taking could increase the magnitude of AEM but lower the magnitude of REM. These results remain robust after including interaction dummy between overconfidence and Delta risk-taking, and interaction dummy between overconfidence and Vega risk-taking for further analysis and Logistic Regression. In addition, this study also finds that overconfidence could mitigate the positive relationship between Vega risk-taking and AEM.

Keywords: Risk-Taking, Earnings Management, Overconfidence, Compensation Incentive

JEL Classification: G34, G41

Suggested Citation:

Li, Chun An and Lin, Tse-Mao and Huang, Yu Wen, Managerial Overconfidence, Compensation Induced Risk Taking, and Earnings Management (2018). The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 12 (2) p. 1-26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3241650
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,488
RANK
336,212
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies