Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Remuneration of Executive Directors: Stages of Development

Economics and Management, Volume: XIII, Issue: 2, Year: 2017, pp. 140-152

Posted: 14 Sep 2018

Miroslav Nedelchev

Independent

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

The aim of the paper is to present the development stages of the executive directors' remuneration. The focus is on the components of remuneration and, to a lesser extent, on its value. The executive directors are the object of paper.

The results of the paper set ten stages for the period 1910-2100's. The dynamics of remuneration reflects the social expectations of a correlation between the results achieved and the compensation of the executive directors. A good structured remuneration policy reduces agency conflict by aligning the agent and principal interests by offering shares and stock options.

Keywords: corporate governance, principal-agent, remuneration

JEL Classification: G34, H32

Suggested Citation:

Nedelchev, Miroslav, Remuneration of Executive Directors: Stages of Development (2017). Economics and Management, Volume: XIII, Issue: 2, Year: 2017, pp. 140-152, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3241655
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,210
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies