Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Dividend Policy

AB Design Group, Sofia, 2007, 58 pages, ISBN 978-954-91680-6-8

Posted: 15 Sep 2018

Miroslav Nedelchev

Independent

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

The idea for this monograph is at the occasion of the application of the Corporate Income Tax Act (01.01.2007), which gives grounds for the emergence of a "dividend puzzle". Monograph deals with corporate governance and dividend policy through a new method - 3D (Diffident, Designed, Debenture). Underlying the method is the interaction between corporate governance and dividend policy.

Corporate governance includes agency problems that are resolved through dividend policy. The external policy of supervisory authorities leads to an internal dividend distribution policy. The corporate governance principle "one share-one vote" acquires a new dimension in dividend policy - "one share-one vote-one dividend."

Keywords: Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Nedelchev, Miroslav, Corporate Governance and Dividend Policy (2007). AB Design Group, Sofia, 2007, 58 pages, ISBN 978-954-91680-6-8, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3241988
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
944
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies