Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance of Financial Intermediaries: Convergence and Divergence

Jubilee international scientific and practical conference 18-19 May 2012, Veliko Tarnovo, pp. 324-333

10 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2018

Miroslav Nedelchev

Independent

Date Written: May 2012

Abstract

The paper reviews the corporate governance from his evolution point of view. The used perspective is a discussion between convergence and divergence in corporate governance of financial intermediaries. The discussion is core for researches in scientific and implementation papers for last fifty years.

Based on “principal-agent” model the paper illustrates both the dynamics of corporate governance and contemporary points of view for convergence and divergence of systems and practices.

The functional convergence for corporate governance of financial intermediaries outruns the formal convergence. The decisions at national and international level are responds to market reality. The globalization process is leading for convergence of corporate governance, until shareholders’ ownership – for divergence.

The internal corporate governance is defined by path-dependence of the company. The revealed convergence concerns ownership rights and board accountability.

The external corporate governance is defined by the globalization. The auditors have convergence their practices for transparency to shareholders and investors. The regulators are convergent by requirements of stock exchanges.

Keywords: corporate governance, financial intermediaries

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Nedelchev, Miroslav, Corporate Governance of Financial Intermediaries: Convergence and Divergence (May 2012). Jubilee international scientific and practical conference 18-19 May 2012, Veliko Tarnovo, pp. 324-333, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3242022
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
R Abdesselam , S Cieply , A.-L. Le Nadant
Transfers of Ownership Rights: An Empirical Study of Five European Countries
Brussels Economic Review , volume 51 , p. 413 - 434 Posted: 2008
R Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of Good Governance Worldwide: What is the Trigger? Organization Studies , volume 25 , p. 415 - 443 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. Principles for home-host supervisory cooperation and allocation mechanisms in the context of Advanced Measurement Approaches (AMA) Posted: 2007-11
L Bebchuk , M Roe
A theory of path dependence in corporate ownership and governance
Stanford Law Review , volume 52 , p. 127 - 170 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,204
RANK
713,531
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies