Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Diversity and Corporate Social Disclosure: Evidence From Vietnam

Journal of Business Ethics, Vol. 151, No. 3, 2018

61 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2018

Trang Cam Hoang

Independent

Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Ton Duc Thang University

Shiguang Ma

Independent

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

Previous studies establish that firms effectiveness can differ based on the differences among directors within a board, and between boards. However, studies are yet to establish the effectiveness of the diverse attributes of the board on firms’ social disclosure in an emerging market setting. A survey questionnaire provides executives’ perceptions about various attributes relating to board diversity to weigh their importance and other four survey questionnaires about different four social dimensions correspondingly provide four different stakeholder-specific groups’ perceptions about the social disclosure items as well as the type of disclosure of these items to weigh their importance. This study investigates the relation between board diversity and corporate social disclosure measured by the quantity and quality of corporate social disclosures in the annual reports of 133 Vietnamese listed firms in 2010. We find a significantly positive relation between demographic diversity among directors within a board (diversity-in-boards) and both the quantity and quality of corporate social disclosures while structural diversity among boards (diversity-of-boards) has no effect on both the quantity and quality of corporate social disclosures. Additionally, the results are consistent when we examine the relations between two dimensions of board diversity (diversity-in-boards and diversity-of-boards) and corporate social disclosure across two subcategories (labor practices and product responsibility).

Keywords: Board of Directors, Diversity, Diversity-of-Boards, Diversity-in-Boards, Corporate Social Disclosure, Vietnam

JEL Classification: M14

Suggested Citation:

Hoang, Trang Cam and Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com), Indra and Ma, Shiguang, Board Diversity and Corporate Social Disclosure: Evidence From Vietnam (2018). Journal of Business Ethics, Vol. 151, No. 3, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3243685
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
121 References
I Abeysekera
The influence of board size on intellectual capital disclosure by Kenyan listed firms
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 504 - 518 Posted: 2010
Crossref
I Abeysekera
Role of remuneration committee in narrative human capital disclosure
Accounting & Finance , volume 52 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2012
Crossref
I Abeysekera , J Guthrie
An empirical investigation of annual reporting trends of intellectual capital in Sri Lanka
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 151 - 163 Posted: 2005
Crossref
C A Adams
Internal organisational factors influencing corporate social and ethical reporting: Beyond current theorising
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 15 , issue 2 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,764
RANK
315,603
6 Citations
121 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies