Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure of Corporate Political Spending

Journal of Corporate Finance 61, April 2020, 10140

61 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2018 Last revised: 14 Jun 2022

Lisa Goh

Hang Seng University of Hong Kong - Department of Accountancy

Xuejiao Liu

University of International Business and Economics

Albert Tsang

School of Business, Southern University of Science and Technology, China

Date Written: August 28, 2018

Abstract

In this paper, we study voluntary political spending disclosure, a widespread yet relatively unexplored corporate voluntary disclosure practice. Using an index created by the CPA-Zicklin Center that measures the level of voluntary political spending disclosure for S&P 500 firms, we examine firm-level characteristics associated with such disclosures, and their importance. We find that firms with greater political expenditures, direct political connections, higher investor activism, better corporate social responsibility performance and governance, and more industry competition tend to have a higher level of political spending disclosure. We also find that a higher level of political spending disclosure is positively associated with both the number of institutional investors and the proportion of shares owned by institutional investors, particularly socially responsible institutional investors, after controlling for the quality of other disclosures. The level of political spending disclosure is also associated with a higher analyst following, lower forecast error, and smaller forecast dispersion. Finally, we find that political spending disclosure enhances the positive relationship between annual corporate political spending and firm financial performance. Together, these results are consistent with the view that voluntary political spending disclosure helps align managers’ interests with those of shareholders.

Keywords: Financial Analysts, Institutional Investors, CSR, Political Spending, Voluntary Disclosure, Lobbying

JEL Classification: D72, G30, M14, M38, M40

Suggested Citation:

Goh, Lisa and Liu, Xuejiao and Tsang, Albert, Voluntary Disclosure of Corporate Political Spending (August 28, 2018). Journal of Corporate Finance 61, April 2020, 10140, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3243149
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
A Adhikari , C Derashid , H Zhang
Public policy, political connections, and effective tax rates: longitudinal evidence from Malaysia
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , issue 5 , p. 574 - 595 Posted: 2006
R K Aggarwal , F Meschke , T Y Wang
Corporate political donations: Investment or agency? Business and Politics , volume 14 , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 2012
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
Industry concentration and corporate disclosure policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,365
RANK
298,527
2 Citations
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies