Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Quasi-Indexer Ownership and Insider Trading: Evidence from Russell Index Reconstitutions

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2018 Last revised: 18 Apr 2021

Stephen A. Hillegeist

Arizona State University (ASU) - W. P. Carey School of Business, School of Accountancy

Liwei Weng

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 5, 2021

Abstract

The prior literature on the association between institutional ownership and insider trading has produced a mixed set of results. These results are difficult to interpret because the association between them is likely endogenous and prior studies have not employed effective identification strategies to address this issue. In this study, we examine the effects of quasi-indexer institutional ownership on insider trading using the plausibly exogenous discontinuity in quasi-indexer ownership around the Russell 1000/2000 index cutoff. Using both regression discontinuity and instrumental variable research designs, we find higher quasi-indexer ownership leads to less insider trading (both buys and sells) and less profitable sell trades. The effects for sells are concentrated among insider trades that, ex ante, are more likely to be based on private information. Our evidence on the profitability of buys is mixed. In addition, we find firms with higher quasi-indexer ownership are more likely to have and/or more strictly enforce blackout policies.

Keywords: quasi-indexers, insider trading, blackout policies, causal effect, regression discontinuity

JEL Classification: G14, G23, G34, D82

Suggested Citation:

Hillegeist, Stephen A. and Weng, Liwei, Quasi-Indexer Ownership and Insider Trading: Evidence from Russell Index Reconstitutions (April 5, 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3244627 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3244627
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
13 Citations
Alexandre Garel , Arthur Petit-Romec , Rudi Vander Vennet
Institutional Shareholders and Bank Capital
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 50 , p. 100960 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Cătălin N. Albu , Nadia Albu , Allan Hodgson , Zhengling Xiong
Governance in Romania: Exploring the determinants of corporate insider trading
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 307 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Matthijs Lof , Jos van Bommel
Asymmetric Information and the Distribution of Trading Volume
Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming · 92 Pages · Posted: 3 Feb 2016 · Last revised: 7 Aug 2023 · Downloads: 983
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lyungmae Choi , Lucile Faurel , Stephen A. Hillegeist
Do Proprietary Costs Deter Insider Trading?
69 Pages · Posted: 13 Jul 2017 · Last revised: 8 May 2024 · Downloads: 392
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
644
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,288
RANK
94,244
13 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies