Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Formation in a Semi-Mandatory Setting. A Case of an Emerging European Economy

57 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2018

Karolina Puławska

Kozminski University

Dorota Dobija

Kozminski University

Katarzyna Piotrowska

Kozminski University

Grygorii Kravchenko

Kozminski University; Kozminski University

Date Written: September 5, 2018

Abstract

This study investigates the determinants of the audit committee (AC) formation in a semi-mandatory setting of a European economy where ownership and control are predominantly in the hands of families and business groups and the voluntary practice of forming an AC has not been widely accepted. Our primary analysis provides evidence of an inverted association between the determinants of AC formation commonly accepted in the Anglo-Saxon world, such as the number of independent members on supervisory board and accounting and finance expertise of supervisory board members. When it comes to ownership structure, companies with foreign ownership are more likely to have an AC. Our results also point to an important learning effect related to the existence of other supervisory board committees as an important determinant of AC formation. The results are important for supervisory bodies and regulators, as they provide insights into factors that influence audit committee formation. Of particular interest is the link between the experience of having other supervisory board committees and the likelihood of having an AC, suggesting that the AC concept may be more successfully implemented by the promotion of best practices and benefits of having board committees rather than by adjusting the behavior of companies through additional changes in regulation. This may be particularly helpful in addressing the challenges of adopting the Eighth Directive across European states.

Keywords: corporate governance, audit committee, regulated market, audit committee determinants, Poland

JEL Classification: M19, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Puławska, Karolina and Dobija, Dorota and Piotrowska, Katarzyna and Kravchenko, Grygorii and Kravchenko, Grygorii, Audit Committee Formation in a Semi-Mandatory Setting. A Case of an Emerging European Economy (September 5, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3244326 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3244326
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,474
RANK
382,931
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies