Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cashing It In: Private-Company Exchanges and Employee Stock Sales Prior to IPO

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Closer Look Series: Topics, Issues and Controversies in Corporate Governance No. CGRP-73

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 18-45

15 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2018 Last revised: 24 May 2019

David F. Larcker

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Stanford University - Hoover Institution; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Brian Tayan

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Edward M. Watts

Yale School of Management; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: September 12, 2018

Abstract

Companies in the United States are staying private longer, and this trend has important implications for companies and their employees. Employees holding equity awards in private companies are restricted from monetizing an illiquid asset that they might need to support their living expenses. They are also exposed to a concentrated investment portfolio with no readily accessible public market mechanism through which to diversify. To satisfy these needs, a number of private-company marketplace have evolved to facilitate transactions between sellers and qualified buyers.

This Closer Look examines the practice of allowing employees to sell vested equity awards and the pricing employees receive in such transactions. We rely on two unique data sets: a survey of private (pre-IPO) companies and transaction data from SharesPost, a leading private-company marketplace.

We ask:

• Should private companies allow their employees to sell equity prior to IPO?
• If so, what restrictions should companies put in place to ensure that employee sales transactions do not significantly alter the incentive structure of variable compensation?
• Who within the company should determine the timing, scope, and terms of a sales program?
• Should the SEC take steps to boost the size and liquidity of secondary private-company exchanges to reduce the discount that employees receive for selling their shares?
• Would an expansion of secondary private-company discourage more companies from going private by providing an attractive, alternative means of providing liquidity to employees and inside investors?

Note: The Stanford Closer Look series is a collection of short case studies through which we explore topics, issues, and controversies in corporate governance and executive leadership. In each study, we take a targeted look at a specific issue that is relevant to the current debate on governance and explain why it is so important. Larcker and Tayan are co-authors of the books Corporate Governance Matters and A Real Look at Real World Corporate Governance.

Keywords: Corporate governance, employee stock options, private company compensation, private company equity, pre-IPO compensation, pre-IPO discounts, equity compensation, private company exchanges, private company marketplaces, NASDAQ private market, Equidate, SharesPost, EquityZen, governance quality, compe

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Larcker, David F. and Tayan, Brian and Watts, Edward, Cashing It In: Private-Company Exchanges and Employee Stock Sales Prior to IPO (September 12, 2018). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Closer Look Series: Topics, Issues and Controversies in Corporate Governance No. CGRP-73, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 18-45, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3247877
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
951
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,943
RANK
56,143
4 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies