Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Zombie Board: Board Tenure and Firm Performance

Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 56, No. 4, 2018

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper

Posted: 6 Oct 2018

Sterling Huang

New York University (NYU) - New York University (NYU), Shanghai

Gilles Hilary

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Date Written: September 1, 2018

Abstract

We show that board tenure exhibits an inverted U‐shaped relation with firm value and accounting performance. The quality of corporate decisions, such as M&A, financial reporting quality, and CEO compensation, also has a quadratic relation with board tenure. Our results are consistent with the interpretation that directors’ on‐the‐job learning improves firm value up to a threshold, at which point entrenchment dominates and firm performance suffers. To address endogeneity concerns, we use a sample of firms in which an outside director suffered a sudden death, and find that sudden deaths that move board tenure away from (toward) the empirically observed optimum level in the cross‐section are associated with negative (positive) announcement returns. The quality of corporate decisions also follows an inverted U‐shaped pattern in a sample of firms affected by the death of a director.

Keywords: board tenure; ﬁrm value; corporate policies; learning; entrenchment

JEL Classification: G30; G32; G34; G38; J33; J44; M41

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Sterling and Hilary, Gilles, Zombie Board: Board Tenure and Firm Performance (September 1, 2018). Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 56, No. 4, 2018, Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3249092
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,192
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies