Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Small Shareholder Participation in European AGMs

Partly published in: Lafarre, Anne (2017). The AGM in Europe: Theory and practice of shareholder behaviour: Emerald Group Publishing

Conference working paper European Association of Law and Economics, (EALE, London 2017).

47 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2018

Anne Lafarre

Tilburg Law School, Private Business and Labour Law Department, TILEC

Date Written: July 31, 2017

Abstract

This study investigates an important but under-researched topic in Europe, the small shareholder turnout decision. We assess which factors contribute to (small) shareholder participation using a hand-collected panel dataset with information about turnout rates, voting behaviour, and ownership structures of companies that are listed in seven European Member States. We document how ownership concentration positively affects total shareholder turnout, but has a negative effect on small shareholder turnout. Voting power also affects small turnout rates: the greater small shareholder voting power, the greater their eagerness to vote. In addition, total and small shareholder turnout is higher the more important the meeting agenda. And, small shareholders tend to free-ride on large institutional shareholders and corporate insiders, but the magnitude of the free-rider effect is larger for the latter category of blockholders. Our results provide some important insights for the debate on shareholder rights and the role of the AGM in corporate governance. The results show that, despite the criticism, the AGM still plays a role in small shareholder monitoring. Some topics seem to clearly motivate small shareholders to attend, while others are less relevant. Policy makers can stimulate shareholder monitoring by focusing on the factors that determined in this study.

Keywords: corporate governance, shareholder activism, shareholder rights, corporate ownership

Suggested Citation:

Lafarre, Anne, Small Shareholder Participation in European AGMs (July 31, 2017). Partly published in: Lafarre, Anne (2017). The AGM in Europe: Theory and practice of shareholder behaviour: Emerald Group Publishing, Conference working paper European Association of Law and Economics, (EALE, London 2017). , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3249428 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3249428
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
M Arellano , S Bond
Some tests of specification for panel data: Monte Carlo evidence and an application to employment equations
Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 , p. 277 - 297 Posted: 1991
Crossref
S M Bainbridge
The Board of Directors as Nexus of Contracts
Iowa Law Review , volume 88 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2002
S M Bainbridge
Director Primacy, UCLA School of Law
Law & Economics Research Paper Series Posted: 2012
F Barca , M Becht
The Control of Corporate Europe Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,364
RANK
394,837
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies