Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Disclosure on Anti-Corruption Practice: A Study of Social Responsible Companies in The Gulf Cooperation Council

Journal of Financial Crime, Forthcoming

18 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2018

Ayman Issa

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics, Students

Antonio Alleyne

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics, Students

Date Written: July 22, 2017

Abstract

This paper seeks to determine the extent of anti-corruption information disclosure in the sustainability reports originating from Gulf countries. Focus primarily on the fight against corruption, this study utilizes a deeply-rooted content analysis technique of corporate sustainability reporting, covering 66 Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) firms during 2014. Strengthened by the application of institutional theory, insight into the results points to a state of limited maturity regarding the disclosure of anti-corruption procedures in the region. More specifically, the results highlight the compliance in the reporting of conduct code, while reporting information on whistle-blowing was significantly less in comparison. Firms in Qatar and UAE ultimately release better informed reports; inclusive of detailed information on internal anti-corruption practices.

Keywords: Anti-corruption disclosure, Sustainability reports, GCC, Arabian Gulf

Suggested Citation:

Issa, Ayman and Alleyne, Antonio, Corporate Disclosure on Anti-Corruption Practice: A Study of Social Responsible Companies in The Gulf Cooperation Council (July 22, 2017). Journal of Financial Crime, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3252990
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
A Amran , S Susela Devi
The impact of government and foreign affiliate influence on corporate social reporting: The case of Malaysia
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 386 - 404 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Argandoña
Corruption and companies: The use of facilitating payments
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 60 , issue 3 , p. 251 - 264 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M C Branco , D Matos
The Fight Against Corruption in Portugal: Evidence From Sustainability Reports
Journal of Financial Crime , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 132 - 142 Posted: 2016
Crossref
S Brignall , S Modell
An Institutional Perspective on Performance Measurement and Management in the New Public Sector , p. 281 - 306 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,439
RANK
490,025
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies