Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Factors Influencing Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia

Australian Journal of Basic and Applied Sciences, 11(10) July 2017, Pages: 1-19

20 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2018

Ayman Issa

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics, Students

Date Written: July 22, 2017

Abstract

The aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between the corporate social responsibility disclosure ”CSRD” index and corporate factors, namely, board size, board independence, board meetings, CEO duality, a firm’s size, leverage, profitability and age. This is the first known study in case of Saudi Arabia to use the GRI 4th edition indicators to construct the CSRD index and evaluate Saudi listed firms. The data covers three years from 2012- 2014 and sample of 109 listed firms from 13 sectors in Kingdom Saudi Arabia “KSA”. The results show that profitability and size factor have positive and significant association with CSR disclosure in listed Saudi firms.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Corporate Social Responsibility, Social Accounting, Sustainable Reports

Suggested Citation:

Issa, Ayman, The Factors Influencing Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (July 22, 2017). Australian Journal of Basic and Applied Sciences, 11(10) July 2017, Pages: 1-19, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3252993
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
130 References
W Albassam , U K Glasgow , A Alhazaimeh , R Palaniappan , M Almsafir
Corporate Governance, Voluntary Disclosure and Financial Performance: An Empirical Analysis of Saudi Listed Firms Using a Mixed-Methods Research Design
The impact of corporate governance and ownership structure on voluntary disclosure in annual reports among listed Jordanian companies , volume 129 , p. 341 - 348 Posted: 2014
Y Al-Janadi , R A Rahman , N H Omar
Corporate governance mechanisms and voluntary disclosure in Saudi Arabia
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 4 , issue 4 Posted: 2013
K Aljifri
Annual report disclosure in a developing country: The case of the UAE
Advances in Accounting , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 93 - 100 Posted: 2008
Crossref
K Aljifri , A Alzarouni , C Ng , M I Tahir
The Association Between Firm Characteristics and Corporate Financial Disclosures: Evidence From Uae Companies
International Journal of Business and Finance Research , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 101 - 123 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
658
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,137
RANK
91,652
130 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies