Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Supply Chain Power and Real Earnings Management: Stock Market Perceptions, Financial Performance Effects, and Implications for Suppliers

Danny Lanier, William Wempe, and Morgan Swink (2019), “Supply Chain Power and Real Earnings Management: Stock Market Perceptions, Financial Performance Effects, and Implications for Suppliers” Journal of Supply Chain Management, Vol. 55.

48 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2018

Danny Lanier, Jr

Elon University

William F. Wempe

Texas Christian University - M.J. Neeley School of Business

Morgan Swink

Texas Christian University - M.J. Neeley School of Business

Date Written: September 21, 2018

Abstract

This study examines supply chain power in the context of real earnings management (REM), instances in which executives execute (or forego) operations transactions for the sole purpose of meeting or beating earnings targets. We examine whether powerful major customers in supply chains exploit their positions to engage in REM to a greater degree than less powerful firms.

We also examine:

1) whether the stock market reacts differently to major customers’ and non-major customers’ REM,

2) whether any difference exists between major customers’ and non-major customers’ post-REM financial performance, and

3) how suppliers are impacted by their major customers’ REM behavior. Results suggest that major customers exploit their supply chain power to engage in more REM.

In contrast to the skeptical stock market reaction when other firms engage in REM, we find no evidence that major customers’ earnings are discounted when there is evidence of REM. Instead, the market appears to interpret major customers’ behavior as “legitimate” uses of power in supply chain management, rather than REM typically considered to be value-destroying. Further, we find that, in post-REM periods, major customers that engage in REM exhibit better operating cash flow performance than non-major customers who do so.

These findings suggest that the consequential costs of REM are lower for major customers than for non-major customers. Finally, we report evidence that the particular form of major customers’ REM appears to determine the impact on their suppliers. Suppliers’ financial performance deteriorates when major customers’ REM entails discretionary expense cuts.

These findings offer new insights into the benefits and uses of power in supply chain relationships, in a previously unexplored context. We discuss the implications of the findings for future research.

Keywords: Interorganizational Relationships, Power, Archival Research, Regression Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Lanier, Jr, Danny and Wempe, William F. and Swink, Morgan, Supply Chain Power and Real Earnings Management: Stock Market Perceptions, Financial Performance Effects, and Implications for Suppliers (September 21, 2018). Danny Lanier, William Wempe, and Morgan Swink (2019), “Supply Chain Power and Real Earnings Management: Stock Market Perceptions, Financial Performance Effects, and Implications for Suppliers” Journal of Supply Chain Management, Vol. 55., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3253198
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
A Cox , P Ireland , C Lonsdale , J Sanderson , G Watson
Supply Chains, Markets, & Power Posted: 2001
T R Crook , J G Combs
Sources and consequences of bargaining power in supply chains
Journal of Operations Management , volume 25 , p. 546 - 555 Posted: 2007
Crossref
T R Crook , C W Craighead , C W Autry
Hold back or held back? The roles of constraint mitigation and exchange diffusion on power "nonuse" in buyer-supplier exchanges
Journal of Supply Chain Management , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 10 - 21 Posted: 2017
Crossref
J Crosby
Hormel's profit fell 11 percent on cost squeeze, still beat expectations
Star Tribune Posted: 2017-11-21
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,358
RANK
420,501
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies