Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Building Up a Protective Shield: The Role of Communication for Corporate Tax Risk Management

61 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2018 Last revised: 11 Apr 2019

Alissa Bruehne

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Deborah Schanz

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Date Written: September 25, 2018

Abstract

Our objective is to examine the ‘black box’ of corporate tax risk management by providing unique insights into practitioners’ tax risk perception, implemented tax risk management practices, and the internal dynamics leading to these practices. We perform our analysis based on 33 expert interviews, which we conducted with 42 practitioners. One important insight from our interviews is that substantial heterogeneity in tax risk definitions exists among corporate insiders and corporate outsiders. Another important finding is that our sample firms engage in detached tax risk management practices that are not integrated into enterprise-wide risk management efforts. We attribute this separation to the unique risk profile of the corporate tax function. Our results further reveal that 90% of our sample firms engage in (preventive) external tax communication to manage their tax risks. Through addressee-specific tax communication, targeted at different external stakeholders, tax departments shield their firm and its CFO from impinging external pressure and thus reduce corporate tax risk exposure.

Keywords: Tax Risk Management, Tax Communication, Tax Risk, CFO

JEL Classification: D81, H20, G32

Suggested Citation:

Bruehne, Alissa and Schanz, Deborah, Building Up a Protective Shield: The Role of Communication for Corporate Tax Risk Management (September 25, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3254915 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3254915
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
124 References
Overy Allen
Negotiating the minefield: Managing tax risks in challenging times Posted: 2017
M Arena , M Arnaboldi , G Azzone
The organizational dynamics of enterprise risk management. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 35 , issue 7 , p. 659 - 675 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Hamilton Scott Asay , Jeffrey L. Hoopes , Jacob Thornock , Jaron H. Wilde
Consumer Responses to Corporate Tax Planning
Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 18-19 Pages: 41 Posted: 15 Aug 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
4 Citations
Eva Eberhartinger , Maximilian Zieser
The Effects of Cooperative Compliance on Firms’ Tax Risk, Tax Risk Management and Compliance Costs
Schmalenbach Journal of Business Research , volume 73 , issue 1 , p. 125 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Benjamin Osswald
Corporate Tax Planning and Firms’ Information Environment
WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2018-10 · 51 Pages · Posted: 14 Dec 2018 · Downloads: 329
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Feride Bakar Türegün , Adnan Gerçek
Handbook of Research on New Challenges and Global Outlooks in Financial Risk Management
, p. 250 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Vanessa Flagmeier , Jens Müller , Caren Sureth-Sloane
When do firms highlight their effective tax rate?
Accounting and Business Research , volume 53 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
505
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,740
RANK
128,124
4 Citations
124 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies