Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Public Scrutiny on Corporate Tax Decisions Affect Directors? Effects of Responsible (Irresponsible) Corporate Tax Practices on Director Reputation

39 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2022 Last revised: 24 Aug 2022

Chun Keung (Stan) Hoi

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Yun Ke

University of Texas at El Paso - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Hao Zhang

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) - Saunders College of Business

Date Written: July 16, 2022

Abstract

In 2004, the Citizens of Tax Justice (CTJ) released a report that significantly raised public awareness of corporate tax avoidance practices in the companies that it scrutinized in the study. Using a six-year period straddling the CTJ event, we compare over time changes in external board seats held by incumbent directors serving scrutinized firms against those of their counterparts serving control firms with comparable tax practices but that were not scrutinized in the CTJ study. Incumbent directors in scrutinized firms with minimal tax avoidance practices gained more external board seats after the CTJ event than did board members in control firms. However, directors in scrutinized firms with aggressive tax avoidance practices neither gained nor lost more external board seats after the CTJ event than did directors in control firms. These findings provide little evidence that constituents in the corporate sector overwhelmingly favor tax minimization practices as acceptable practices of conducting business operations. Rather, they provide evidence that corporate constituents, like their social peers, are somewhat attuned to the expectation for socially responsible tax practices.

Keywords: Corporate tax avoidance; news media coverage; director reputation; corporate social responsibility; social norm; labor market for directors

JEL Classification: H26; J10; L14; M41

Suggested Citation:

Hoi, Chun Keung (Stan) and Ke, Yun and Wu, Qiang and Zhang, Hao, Does Public Scrutiny on Corporate Tax Decisions Affect Directors? Effects of Responsible (Irresponsible) Corporate Tax Practices on Director Reputation (July 16, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3255696 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3255696
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , Jagolinzer , Ad , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
H S Asay , J L Hoopes , J R Thornock , J H Wilde
Posted: 2021
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An examination of reputational costs and tax avoidance: Evidence from firms with valuable consumer brands
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
F Belo , X Lin , M A Vitorino
Brand capital and firm value
Review of Economic Dynamics , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 150 - 169 Posted: 2014
Load more
1 Citations
Alessandro Gabrielli , Francesco Pistolesi , Giulio Greco , Emanuele Teti
Creating Value Through Sustainability
, p. 151 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,148
RANK
568,026
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies