Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Attributes Influencing Clients’ Auditor Choices: The Expectation Gaps between Auditors and Board Members

Current Issues in Auditing 14 (2), A1-A14

ESCP Business School Research Paper

Posted: 10 Nov 2018 Last revised: 18 May 2021

Francis Goddard

ESCP Europe, Berlin

Martin Schmidt

ESCP Business School, Department of Financial Reporting & Audit

Date Written: March 12, 2020

Abstract

This paper reports the results of a survey of board members who participate in auditor appointments and audit firm partners and (senior) managers on attributes influencing clients’ auditor choice decisions. We identify several “expectation gaps” between the importance that board members assign to attributes and the importance that auditors expect board members to assign to the same attributes. The results indicate that board members deem low audit fees, as well as a good relationship with the audit partner to be less important than audit partners and managers expect. We find the opposite for attributes related to audit quality, such as technical competence and industry expertise, as well as professional skepticism and independence of mind, and business know-how of the audit firm, which board members assess as more important than audit partners and managers expect. The findings have important implications for auditors in audit tenders.

Keywords: audit fees, auditor-client relationships, clients’ auditor choices, expectation gap

JEL Classification: M30, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Goddard, Francis and Schmidt, Martin, Attributes Influencing Clients’ Auditor Choices: The Expectation Gaps between Auditors and Board Members (March 12, 2020). Current Issues in Auditing 14 (2), A1-A14, ESCP Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3255574 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3255574
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,643
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies