Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Goals and Pay Structure on Managerial Reporting Dishonesty

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 19, No. 3, 2018

42 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2018

Stephen J. Sauer

Cornell University - Johnson School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Matthew Rodgers

Ithaca College

William Jay Becker

Virginia Tech

Date Written: September 27, 2018

Abstract

Organizations often address agency concerns through reward systems such as goal setting and monetary incentives, and while these are important mechanisms for increasing and aligning employee effort, they can lead to undesirable or unethical behaviors. In this article, we explore the interactive effects of goals and pay structures on the amount of dishonesty that occurs in managerial reporting. Using a simulation replicating the cost reporting decisions made by managers, we find that having cost goals decreases dishonesty when managers are paid a flat wage and increases dishonesty when managers are paid a bonus for hitting certain targets. We also observe a “slippery step” effect, wherein dishonest behavior becomes increasingly worse once managers have crossed a certain threshold of dishonesty. This research helps disentangle the effects of goals and monetary incentives and identifies an important boundary condition to warnings about the dangers of goal setting in organizations.

Keywords: goalsetting, incentives, dishonesty

JEL Classification: C92, D91, M52

Suggested Citation:

Sauer, Stephen J. and Rodgers, Matthew and Becker, William Jay, The Effects of Goals and Pay Structure on Managerial Reporting Dishonesty (September 27, 2018). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 19, No. 3, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3256350
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
522
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,400
RANK
123,063
6 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies