Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate Governance on the Timeliness of Corporate Internet Reporting by Egyptian Listed Companies

Ezat, A. and El-Masry, A.A. (2008), The impact of corporate governance on the timeliness of corporate internet reporting by Egyptian listed companies, Managerial Finance, Vol. 34 No. 12, pp. 848-867

Posted: 16 Nov 2018

Amr Ezat

University of Plymouth - Plymouth Business School

Ahmed A El-Masry

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 1, 2008

Abstract

Purpose – This study seeks to examine the key factors that affect the timeliness of corporate internet reporting (CIR) by the Egyptian listed corporations on the Cairo and Alexandria Stock Exchange.

Design/methodology/approach – The authors use firm characteristics and corporate governance variables to investigate the influence on the timeliness of CIR. They also develop a disclosure index to measure the timeliness of CIR for the listed Egyptian corporations.

Findings – The primary analysis finds a significant relationship between the timeliness of CIR and firm size, type of industry, liquidity, ownership structure, board composition and board size. The results indicate that firms typically in the service sector, that are large and have a high rate of liquidity, a high proportion of independent directors, a large number of board directors and a high free float disclose more timely information on their web sites. Furthermore, a significant association between the entire independent variables and some items of timeliness of CIR is found.

Originality/value – This study is one of the first empirical studies to investigate the relationship between the corporate governance and the timeliness of CIR in an emerging market

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Egypt, Financial Reporting, Stock Exchanges, Online Operations

JEL Classification: D21, D22, G34, O16

Suggested Citation:

Ezat, Amr and El-Masry, Ahmed A, The Impact of Corporate Governance on the Timeliness of Corporate Internet Reporting by Egyptian Listed Companies (December 1, 2008). Ezat, A. and El-Masry, A.A. (2008), The impact of corporate governance on the timeliness of corporate internet reporting by Egyptian listed companies, Managerial Finance, Vol. 34 No. 12, pp. 848-867, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3257116
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,077
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies