Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Returnee Executives and Accounting Conservatism

Posted: 25 Oct 2018

Keping Wu

School of Business & Administration Chaohu university

Date Written: October 4, 2018

Abstract

Based on the data of Chinese listed companies, this paper examines the impact of returnee’s executives on accounting conservatism. We find that employing returnee executives can significantly improve accounting conservatism, especially in companies with weak internal control, high proportion of large shareholders and weak investor protection. private enterprises and enterprises with weak external supervision mechanism are more conducive to play the positive role of returnee’s executives in improving accounting conservatism. The results show that the employment of returnee executives should be further strengthened under the weak internal corporate governance. In addition, the role of external supervision governance should be brought into play in order to enhance accounting conservatism, thus helping to improve the quality of accounting information and resources rational allocation of securities market under the context of supply-side structural reform. As a result, it can promote steady development of China's capital market and benign operation.

Keywords: Returnee Executives, Internal Control, Investor Protection, Accounting Conservatism

JEL Classification: G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Keping, Returnee Executives and Accounting Conservatism (October 4, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3260365
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
864
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies