Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting in European Stock Corporations

The Transparency of Stock Corporations in Europe (R Veil and V Tountopoulos, eds., Hart Publishing, Forthcoming)

Bocconi Legal Studies Research Paper No. 3260426

22 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2018 Last revised: 25 Oct 2018

Giovanni Strampelli

Bocconi University - Department of Law; EUSFIL Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: October 4, 2018

Abstract

The IAS Regulation and the Accounting Directives have not led to the effective harmonisation of European accounting rules for stock corporations, with the sole exception of the consolidated financial statements of listed corporations (which must be prepared in accordance with the IAS/IFRS). The numerous choices granted to Member States under the IAS/IFRS Regulation and 2013 Accounting Directive give rise to significant differences in the criteria that must be used for preparing financial statements in the Member States. Nevertheless, the options provided under the IAS Regulation and the Accounting Directive have proved to be essential in limiting the accounting-related cost burden for smaller companies and, by providing for different accounting regimes based on the company’s public accountability and size, in striking an adequate balance between undertakings’ and investors’ interests. Hence, this paper ague that in order to strike an adequate balance between preparers’ costs and users’ information needs, it is essential to differentiate between applicable accounting regimes depending on the company’s public accountability and size. Therefore, the Commission’s proposal to introduce a simplified financial reporting regime for small companies listed on MTFs is appropriate, even though it further limits the harmonisation of accounting rules for listed companies. Moreover, although it results in further differentiation within the EU accounting regime, listed companies should be required (following the UK Strategic Report model) to prepare a clear and concise narrative report focusing on essential aspects of the company’s business, circumstances, strategies, and governance with the aim of enhancing the effectiveness of IAS/IFRS financial statements and of making them more suitable for meet investors’ needs.

Keywords: Accounting disclosure, Financial reporting, IAS/IFRS, IAS Regulation, Accounting Directive

JEL Classification: K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Strampelli, Giovanni, Financial Reporting in European Stock Corporations (October 4, 2018). The Transparency of Stock Corporations in Europe (R Veil and V Tountopoulos, eds., Hart Publishing, Forthcoming), Bocconi Legal Studies Research Paper No. 3260426, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3260426
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,524
RANK
627,127
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bocconi University Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies