Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Endowed Trait and Financial Reporting Conservatism: Evidence from Pilot CEOs

Posted: 5 Oct 2018 Last revised: 24 Jan 2025

Xiaohua Fang

Florida Atlantic University

Le Luo

School of Management, Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Hong Xie

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 1, 2018

Abstract

Psychological and upper echelons theories suggest that CEO personality traits, such as sensation seeking, shape corporate policies. In gauging sensation seeking with whether the CEO holds a pilot license, we examine the importance of this CEO endowed trait to firms’ financial reporting decision. We find that CEO sensation seeking is inversely associated with financial reporting conservatism (i.e., timely recognition of bad news relative to good news in earnings). This result holds in extensive sensitivity analyses, including controlling for alternative CEO overconfidence measures and a series of additional CEO characteristics and confronting potential endogeneity threats with several techniques. Finally, in a series of cross-sectional tests, we find no evidence that the negative relation we document varies systematically with external monitoring and CEO power, consistent with prior research implying that intrinsic motivation from CEO endowed traits dominates potential constraints from extrinsic forces.

Keywords: CEO personality traits; sensation seeking; accounting conservatism

Suggested Citation:

Fang, Xiaohua and Luo, Le and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Xie, Hong, CEO Endowed Trait and Financial Reporting Conservatism: Evidence from Pilot CEOs (September 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3260855
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,560
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies