Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrated Reporting: An Indian Perspective

International Journal of Business and Administration Research Review, Vol.3, Issue.20, Oct- Dec 2017. Page 77

6 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2018

Agnishwar Basu

University of North Bengal

Date Written: November 24, 2017

Abstract

The modern world of commerce, economics and finance has gone much above figures appearing in the data sheets. With the value of information increasing day by day, qualitative information is receiving equal importance as that of quantitative information. The concept of Integrated Reporting talks beyond the distinct financial and non-financial reporting requirements and aims to put forth a more comprehensive disclosure of the entity to its stakeholders. The aim of Integrated Reporting is to provide a holistic yet concise view of the overall value and performance of the company on financial as well as social terms.

This paper provides an overview of this concept and examine its relevance in Indian context. Further, it aims to examine the preparedness in India towards integrated reporting through annual reports of five major companies representing five different industries.

Keywords: Integrated Reporting(IR), Indian GAAP, IIRC

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Agnishwar, Integrated Reporting: An Indian Perspective (November 24, 2017). International Journal of Business and Administration Research Review, Vol.3, Issue.20, Oct- Dec 2017. Page 77 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3261886
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,143
RANK
484,103
1 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies