Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Calculating Corporate Compliance & The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act

Brian S. Haney, Calculating Corporate Compliance & The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, 19 U. Pitt. J. Tech. L. & Pol'y 1 (2018).

35 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2018 Last revised: 1 Sep 2019

Brian Haney

Independent

Date Written: April 1, 2018

Abstract

Technology is rapidly disrupting every industry and institution around the globe. Yet, corporate compliance has remained relatively unaffected by technological change when compared to other industries. If firms continue to lag behind in their compliance efforts, their risk exposure to the potentially lethal sanctions associated with major compliance failures will continue to increase with time. This is particularly true in the context of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). Generally, the FCPA is a regulatory statute that forbids bribery and false accounting for domestic firms doing business abroad. And, in the past decade the DOJ and SEC have begun aggressively enforcing the FCPA. Firms should begin using technology to develop more robust and cost-efficient compliance programs in order to insulate themselves from the FCPA’s harsh penalties.

This paper provides an algorithm that allows firms to evaluate and improve their compliance programs in accordance with several published sources of guidance. Compliance scholars have made clear that it is critical for firms to maintain strong corporate compliance programs and have suggested different models and frameworks for internal evaluation and auditing. However, those suggestions fail to consider how technology may be used to improve the cost-efficiency of corporate compliance & ethics programs. This paper takes an informatics based approach to evaluating and improving firm compliance by focusing on the most important compliance functions according to the DOJ, courts, and other Government actors. Indeed, firms may drastically improve the cost-efficiency of their compliance efforts by adopting the analytical framework proposed in this paper.

Keywords: Technology, law, compliance, government contracts, legal informatics, FCPA, international

JEL Classification: K10

Suggested Citation:

Haney, Brian, Calculating Corporate Compliance & The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (April 1, 2018). Brian S. Haney, Calculating Corporate Compliance & The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, 19 U. Pitt. J. Tech. L. & Pol'y 1 (2018)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3261443 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3261443
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Brian S Haney ; Acquisitions , Nat'l Def , Mag
Ethics Pitfalls in Mergers Posted: 2017-06-13
U S Comm'n
Id
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,013
RANK
357,435
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies