Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Institutional Ownership Improve Firm Investment Efficiency?

Emerging Markets Finance and Trade, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2018

Cao Yue

Hunan University - Business School

Yizhe Dong

University of Edinburgh Business School

Yu Lu

Beijing Technology and Business University - Business School

Diandian Ma

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: October 6, 2018

Abstract

Our study examines the influence of institutional investors on firm investment efficiency based on the non-financial firms listed on Chinese stock exchanges over the period of 2009–2014. Our results show that institutional ownership generally improves firm investment efficiency. However, after considering the independence of institutional ownership, we find that only pressure-resistant institutional ownership increases firm investment efficiency by alleviating both over-investment and under-investment. We also find that the pressure-resistant institution investors’ horizon matters. In particular, the pressure-resistant institution investors that have higher shareholdings are more stable, i.e. they tend to hold shares for a longer term, and thus have more intensive effect on firm investment efficiency. Our results also show that relaxing external financing constraints, reducing agency costs and increasing executive incentives significantly improve firm investment efficiency. The results are robust to controlling for endogeneity. Documenting the positive influence that pressure-resistant institutional investors have on firm investment efficiency and the channels through which they improve firm investment efficiency should be of interest to investors, regulators and academics.

Keywords: Institutional Ownership; Investment Efficiency; Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Yue, Cao and Dong, Yizhe and Lu, Yu and Ma, Diandian, Does Institutional Ownership Improve Firm Investment Efficiency? (October 6, 2018). Emerging Markets Finance and Trade, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3261975
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
American Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 30 , p. 203 - 236
Crossref
J L Coles , N D Daniel , L Naveen
Managerial incentives and risk-taking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 79 , issue 2 , p. 431 - 68 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M M Cornett , A J Marcus , A Saunders , H Tehranian
The impact of institutional ownership on corporate operating performance
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 31 , issue 6 , p. 1771 - 94 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Ding , W X Hou , J M Kuo , E Lee
Fund ownership and stock price informativeness of Chinese listed firms
Journal of Multinational Financial Management , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 166 - 85 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
283
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,443
RANK
246,297
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies