Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Diversity Reforms: Do They Matter for EU Bank Performance?

Posted: 29 Oct 2018

Francesca Arnaboldi

University of Milan

Barbara Casu

City University London - The Business School

Elena Kalotychou

Cyprus University of Technology

Anna Sarkisyan

University of Essex - Essex Business School

Date Written: August 31, 2018

Abstract

We examine the impact of governance reforms related to board diversity on the performance of EU banks. Using a difference-in-difference approach, we document that reforms increase bank stock returns up to two years after their introduction. We find that the impact is similar across mandatory and affirmative actions, albeit the former increase bank risk. The performance-diversity relationship varies with the type of reform. While gender diversity per se seems to have no significant influence, when women’s presence is mandatory it reduces risk. The effectiveness of reforms depends on a country's institutional environment, its legal origin and its cultural openness to diversity.

Keywords: Board Diversity Reforms, Corporate Governance Codes, Bank Performance

Suggested Citation:

Arnaboldi, Francesca and Casu, Barbara and Kalotychou, Elena and Sarkisyan, Anna, Board Diversity Reforms: Do They Matter for EU Bank Performance? (August 31, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3261156
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,276
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies