Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statement Readability and Tax Aggressiveness

45 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2018

Christof Beuselinck

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Belen Blanco

The University of Adelaide

Sandip Dhole

Monash University

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Date Written: August 22, 2018

Abstract

This study investigates whether firms with aggressive tax planning strategies have less readable financial reports. In theory, tax-planning increases firm value through tax savings but can lead to a discount if applied too aggressively. Therefore, managers have an incentive to obfuscate their aggressive tax planning activities. One means of doing so is to make financial statements less readable and thus make aggressive tax planning activities more difficult to interpret for outsiders. Consistent with the information-based agency problem perspective of complex financial statements, we find a robust negative relation between financial statement readability and various proxies for tax aggressiveness. We further show that the negative association between financial statement readability and tax aggressiveness is weakened after the installation of Schedule M-3, a regulatory requirement for a detailed reconciliation of book income to tax income intended to make firms' aggressive tax planning activities more apparent to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Collectively, this evidence suggests that managers apply complex financial reporting strategies when the benefits of hiding tax aggressive policies exceed the costs, but rely less on obfuscation through such complexity when the benefits of obfuscation attempts are small.

Keywords: Annual Report Readability, Tax Panning, IRS Attention

Suggested Citation:

Beuselinck, Christof and Blanco, Belen and Dhole, Sandip and Lobo, Gerald J., Financial Statement Readability and Tax Aggressiveness (August 22, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3261115 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3261115
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,014
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,649
RANK
51,352
3 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies