Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Moral Hazard and Internal Discipline: Theory and Evidence

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

69 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2018 Last revised: 29 Dec 2022

Meng Li

Steed School of Accounting, University of Oklahoma

Date Written: October 5, 2018

Abstract

This paper studies, both theoretically and empirically, how subordinates to CEOs can discipline the CEOs’ self-serving activities. I predict that, because CEOs’ self-serving activities hurt the subordinates through the subordinates’ stakes in the firms, the subordinates who observe these activities will take actions that negatively affect the CEOs; and that, in anticipation of such reactions by subordinates, the CEOs will limit their own misbehaviors. This disciplinary mechanism will become more effective when the CEOs’ self-serving activities are more observable to subordinates. Further, the sensitivity of CEOs’ self-serving activities to observability will increase (i) as the agency problem between CEOs and their subordinates intensifies and (ii) when external monitoring is less effective. The incentive pay for the subordinates will also decrease with the strength of external monitoring. Using a series of empirical tests, I find results that are largely consistent with my theoretical predictions.

Keywords: CEO’s self-serving activities, Internal discipline, Subordinates

JEL Classification: G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Li, Meng, Moral Hazard and Internal Discipline: Theory and Evidence (October 5, 2018). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3261348
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,745
RANK
631,426
4 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies