Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Causes and Solutions for Misconduct in the Financial Services Industry

2019 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference

45 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2018 Last revised: 1 Apr 2019

Shann Turnbull

International Institute for Self-Governance; Sustainable Money Working Group; New Garden City Alliance

Date Written: March 31, 2019

Abstract

This paper reviews the efficacy of the Australian government’s 2018 initiatives to counter widespread misconduct identified by its Royal Commission into misconduct in the banking, superannuation, insurance, and financial services industry. As regulators exist to protect stakeholders, there is a need for: (i) regulators to become accountable to them and (ii) the ability of stakeholders to appoint representative bodies to direct and control qualified stakeholder advocates who could also become co-regulators. The role, size, cost and intrusiveness of regulators could be reduced. Regulators could require firms to: (a) remove current unethical conflicts inherent in Anglophone corporate constitutions; (b) establish constructive management of other conflicts; (c) provide independent voice to stakeholders for improving operations, reporting misconduct, harms, risks and/or unsatisfactory service. These changes could provide the means to achieve the outcomes specified in 2018 by the largest global fund manager who has identified the need for “A new model of corporate governance”. The appointment of various classes of stakeholder advocates for the different stakeholder constituencies of each firm offers the prospect of competitive advantages with continuous, more economic, comprehensive, nuanced and reliable control of mismanagement, misconduct and malfeasance than the practice of embedding regulators within a firm.

Keywords: Ecological governance, Hierarchical governance, Individual wellbeing, Network governance, OECD metrics, Organizational wellbeing

JEL Classification: D02, D22, D63, D72, 73, 74, D83, G21, G22, G32, K23, L59, M48

Suggested Citation:

Turnbull, Shann, Causes and Solutions for Misconduct in the Financial Services Industry (March 31, 2019). 2019 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3262057 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3262057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
845
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,664
RANK
66,091
3 Citations
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies