Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Quasi-Indexer Ownership and Conditional Conservatism: Evidence from Russell Index Reconstitutions

60 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2018 Last revised: 6 Jun 2019

Stephen A. Hillegeist

Arizona State University (ASU) - W. P. Carey School of Business, School of Accountancy

Fernando Penalva

IESE Business School - University of Navarra; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Liwei Weng

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: May 31, 2019

Abstract

We examine the effects of quasi-indexer ownership on conditional conservatism using the plausibly exogenous discontinuity in quasi-indexer ownership around the Russell 1000/2000 index cutoff. Using both regression discontinuity and instrumental variable research designs, we find higher quasi-indexer ownership leads to higher levels of conditional conservatism. We also find the magnitude of this conservatism effect is larger when the expected benefits of conservatism are greater and in the presence of activist shareholders. Importantly, we examine the mechanisms through which the conservatism effect occurs. We find the conservatism effect is completely explained by the influence quasi-indexer ownership has on CEOs’ equity-based incentives. Differences in quasi-indexer ownership around the threshold cause changes in CEO incentives, which in turn result in the firm choosing more conservative accounting policies. Our evidence provides new insights into the role of quasi-indexers as external monitors and to what extent they directly or indirectly influence firm policies.

Keywords: quasi-indexer institutional owners, conditional conservatism, monitoring, causal effect, regression discontinuity

JEL Classification: G23, G34

Suggested Citation:

Hillegeist, Stephen A. and Penalva, Fernando and Weng, Liwei, Quasi-Indexer Ownership and Conditional Conservatism: Evidence from Russell Index Reconstitutions (May 31, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3262206 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3262206
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
807
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,982
RANK
70,198
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies