Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxes, Governance, and Debt Maturity Structure: International Evidence

Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2018 Last revised: 8 Nov 2018

Eilnaz Kashefi-Pour

University of Birmingham - Birmingham Business School

Meziane Lasfer

Bayes Business School, City, University of London

Date Written: October 7, 2018

Abstract

We provide a cross-country evidence on the impact of corporate and personal income taxes, and corporate governance systems on debt maturity structures and leverage using a comprehensive sample of 212,642 firm-year observations based on a sample of 19,573 firms from 24 OECD countries over the period 1990 to 2015. We find longer debt maturities, higher leverage, and, in a dynamic setting, a greater propensity to decrease short-term debt, in countries with high investor protection and where the potentials for debt tax shields and after-tax return of investors are high. Our results imply that when investors are protected, firms tend to have optimal debt maturities to maximize the gains from tax shields and minimize the tax cost of equity. In contrast, in low protection countries, investors prefer their firms to opt for low debt that is mainly short-term to mitigate the risk-shifting and debt overhang problems even if this entails forgoing the debt tax shields. Our results hold for various robustness checks including the hierarchical linear model specification, which corrects for a number of OLS biases.

Keywords: Debt Maturity, Debt Overhang, Risk-Shifting, Signalling, Classical and Imputation Tax Systems

JEL Classification: G32

Suggested Citation:

Kashefi-Pour, Eilnaz and Lasfer, Meziane, Taxes, Governance, and Debt Maturity Structure: International Evidence (October 7, 2018). Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3262779 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3262779
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,695
RANK
644,694
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies