Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Preserving a Living Legacy: Marital Ownership and Risk Taking in Family Firms

52 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2018 Last revised: 3 Feb 2020

Yue Pan

Xiamen University - School of Economics

Jinli Xiao

Xiamen University - School of Management

Vincent Yao

Georgia State University - J. Mack Robinson College of Business

Jian Zhang

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: February 2, 2020

Abstract

We examine how ownership by couples affects risk taking in family firms. We find that firms co-owned by couples exhibit significantly lower stock return volatility. This result is robust to a difference-in-differences approach based on a smaller sample and an instrumental variable approach. Analysis based on alternative co-ownership suggests that the lower risk reflects couples' efforts to preserve a family legacy in the presence of children, rather than the role of gender. The risk reduction is stronger in industries with a higher female concentration and when the family is under majority shareholder pressure. We also show that this reduction is achieved by increased female empowerment in family firms.

Keywords: Gender, Risk taking, Family firm, Family legacy, Cultural norms, Marriage market

JEL Classification: D10, G31, G32, J16

Suggested Citation:

Pan, Yue and Xiao, Jinli and Yao, Vincent and Zhang, Jian, Preserving a Living Legacy: Marital Ownership and Risk Taking in Family Firms (February 2, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3262327 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3262327
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,454
RANK
314,223
3 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies