Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enforceability of Noncompetition Agreements and Forced Turnovers of Chief Executive Officers

Journal of Law and Economics, forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2018 Last revised: 22 Aug 2025

Yupeng Lin

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN); Business School, National University of Singapore

Florian S. Peters

University of Amsterdam

Hojun Seo

Purdue University - Daniels School of Business

Date Written: June 5, 2021

Abstract

We examine whether corporate boards factor the potential cost of competitive harm caused by a departing CEO into the forced CEO turnover decision. Using staggered changes in the state-level enforceability of Covenants Not to Compete (CNC) for identification, we find that enhanced CNC enforceability increases both the likelihood of forced CEO turnover and the sensitivity of forced CEO turnover to firm performance. We present additional cross-sectional evidence that shows such effects are more pronounced when firms face more severe product market threats or operate in industries with greater potential threats of predatory hiring. Investors react to turnover announcements more positively when CNC enforceability increases, indicating that enhanced CNC enforceability increases efficiency in CEO replacement decisions.

Keywords: Legal enforceability of Covenant Not to Compete; Competitive harm; Forced CEO turnover.

JEL Classification: D23, G30, J63, K12, L20, O32

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Yupeng and Peters, Florian S. and Seo, Hojun, Enforceability of Noncompetition Agreements and Forced Turnovers of Chief Executive Officers (June 5, 2021). Journal of Law and Economics, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3262366 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3262366
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
521
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,380
RANK
123,344
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies