Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Test power properties of within-firm estimators of ownership and board-related explanatory variables with low time variation

72 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2018 Last revised: 21 Mar 2022

Maria Boutchkova

University of Edinburgh

Diego C. Cueto

ESAN Graduate School of Business

Angelica Gonzalez

University of Edinburgh

Date Written: July 1, 2021

Abstract

Corporate governance research is often limited in its ability to employ within-firm estimators, which address time-invariant endogeneity, when the variables of interest exhibit low time variation (for example, ownership and board independence). The problem is further exacerbated if data for multiple points in time needs to be hand-collected. We offer simulation-based methodological guidance to improve the statistical power of within-firm estimators in the presence of low time variation. We illustrate the usefulness of our simulation results by replicating two influential studies on ownership and board independence and extending them with a within-firm estimator. Based on widely used databases as well as a novel granular database, we document the different degrees and nature of time variation of ownership and board independence across jurisdictions and subgroups by listed status, family control and complexity of ownership structure. Researchers can use our findings to make empirical design decisions and informed choices about the frequency of sampling and/or hand collection of fewer non-consecutive time periods that ensure sufficient time variation and statistical power.

Keywords: controlling ownership; ultimate cash flow rights; control rights; ownership wedge; board independence; low time variation; family firms; within-firm estimator; pyramid structures

JEL Classification: G15, G32

Suggested Citation:

Boutchkova, Maria and Cueto, Diego C. and Gonzalez, Angelica, Test power properties of within-firm estimators of ownership and board-related explanatory variables with low time variation (July 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3263406 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3263406
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,710
RANK
677,550
1 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies