Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Modelling the Objective Function of Managers in the Presence of Overlapping Shareholding

International Journal of Industrial Organization, Vol. 87, 2023

47 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2018 Last revised: 14 Jan 2023

Duarte Brito

NOVA University Lisbon

Einer Elhauge

Harvard Law School

Ricardo M. Ribeiro

Universidade Católica Portuguesa, Católica Porto Business School

Helder Vasconcelos

Universidade do Porto - Faculdade de Economia (FEP)

Date Written: September 12, 2022

Abstract

The objective function of managers in the presence of overlapping shareholding may differ from the traditional own-firm profit maximization, as they may internalize the externalities their strategies impose on other firms. The dominant formulation of the objective function in such cases has, however, been critiqued for yielding counter-intuitive profit weights when the ownership of non-overlapping shareholders is highly dispersed. In this paper, we examine this issue. First, we make use of a probabilistic voting model (in which shareholders vote to elect the manager) to microfound an alternative formulation of the objective function of managers, which solves the above-mentioned criticism. Second, we apply the two formulations to the set of S&P500 firms. We show that ownership dispersion of non-overlapping shareholders is, in fact, a relevant empirical issue, which may induce an over-quantification of the profit weights computed from the dominant formulation, particularly under a proportional control assumption.

Keywords: Manager Objective Function, Overlapping Shareholding, Ownership Dispersion, Proportional Control, Banzhaf Control

JEL Classification: L13, L41

Suggested Citation:

Brito, Duarte and Elhauge, Einer R. and Ribeiro, Ricardo and Vasconcelos, Helder, Modelling the Objective Function of Managers in the Presence of Overlapping Shareholding (September 12, 2022). International Journal of Industrial Organization, Vol. 87, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3264113 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3264113
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
R Aggarwal , S Dahiya , N R Prabhala
The power of shareholder votes: Evidence from uncontested director elections
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , p. 134 - 153 Posted: 2019
A Alesina , H Rosenthal
Partisan Politics, Divided Government, and the Economy Posted: 1995
A Amel-Zadeh , F Kasperk , M C Schmalz
Mavericks, universal, and common owners -the largest shareholders of u.s. public firms Posted: 2022
K Amess , S Banerji , A Lampousis
Corporate cash holdings: Causes and consequences
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 42 , p. 421 - 433 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
349
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,498
RANK
196,357
6 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies