Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Process, Private Information, and Insider Trading

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Jacobs Levy Equity Management Center for Quantitative Financial Research Paper

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 18-85

60 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2018 Last revised: 9 May 2022

Salman Arif

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Carlson School of Management

John D. Kepler

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Joseph H. Schroeder

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Daniel J. Taylor

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania

Date Written: February 3, 2022

Abstract

While the shareholder benefits of audits are well documented, evidence on whether audits can facilitate opportunistic behavior by corporate insiders is scarce. In this paper, we examine whether the audit process facilitates one particular form of opportunism: informed trading by corporate insiders. We focus our analysis on insider trading around the audit report date. We find an increase in trading around the audit report date and that the increase is abnormally large for firms that subsequently report modified opinions. The abnormal increase in trading is concentrated among officers and non-audit committee independent directors, and most pronounced in first-time modified opinions and modified opinions in years where financial results are subsequently restated. These trades are highly opportunistic: they predict restatements, and as a consequence, we show they avoid significant losses. Collectively, our findings provide novel evidence that insiders appear to exploit private information about the audit process––a process ostensibly designed to protect shareholders––for opportunistic gain.

Keywords: audit opinions, audit process, audit report, private information, insider trading, opportunism

JEL Classification: G34, J33, K31, M52

Suggested Citation:

Arif, Salman and Kepler, John and Schroeder, Joseph H. and Taylor, Daniel, Audit Process, Private Information, and Insider Trading (February 3, 2022). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Jacobs Levy Equity Management Center for Quantitative Financial Research Paper, Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 18-85, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3264424 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3264424
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
C Ai , E Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
M Arellano , J Hahn
Understanding bias in nonlinear panel models: some recent developments , volume 43 Posted: 2007
C Armstrong , D Larcker , G Ormazabal , D Taylor
The relation between equity incentives and misreporting: the role of risk-taking incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 327 - 350 Posted: 2013
C Armstrong , J Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality Redux: The Evolution of Empirical Methods in Accounting Research and the Growth of Quasi-Experiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,591
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,266
RANK
26,605
2 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies