Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Electronic Proxy Statement Dissemination and Shareholder Monitoring

66 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2018

Rachel Geoffroy

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Date Written: November 30, 2018

Abstract

This study examines how the means of disseminating proxy statements affects shareholder monitoring. I exploit the staggered implementation of a regulatory change that allows firms to switch from postal mail to electronic distribution, and estimate that electronic dissemination reduces total voting participation by about 1% to 2%. Under the plausible assumption that all shareholder non-participation is from retail investors, my results imply that retail investor voting non-participation increases by approximately 7% to 17% with electronic distribution. The reduction in retail investor participation shifts routine voting outcomes in favor of management’s recommendations and shift voting outcomes against for non-routine votes. Consistent with management understanding the importance of dissemination channels, I further show management strategically uses its discretion over the choice of the proxy statement dissemination channel to affect voting.

Keywords: notice and access, e-proxy, securities regulation, dissemination, corporate goverance

JEL Classification: G24, G34, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Geoffroy, Rachel, Electronic Proxy Statement Dissemination and Shareholder Monitoring (November 30, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3264846 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3264846
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
382
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,028
RANK
177,635
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies