Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility on Employee Layoffs, Severance Payments, and Layoff Disclosure

65 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2018

Denton Collins

Texas Tech University - Rawls College of Business

Gary Fleischman

Texas Tech University

Daniela Sanchez

Texas Tech University - Area of Accounting

Date Written: October 10, 2018

Abstract

We examine the impact of corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance on the likelihood and magnitude of firms’ decisions to lay off employees (henceforth referred to as “layoffs”), the magnitude of severance payments made to terminated employees, and the likelihood of voluntary disclosure details about the layoff events. Using S&P 500 firms over 22 years, we find that firms with high CSR performance (HCSR) are more likely to engage in layoffs, and to lay off significantly more employees compared to firms with low CSR performance (LCSR). We also find that HCSR firms provide greater severance benefits to terminated employees, and that they disclose more details surrounding the layoffs. Because HCSR firms lay off more employees than LCSR firms on average, overall they realize greater layoff-related net present-values (NPV). Additional analysis reveals that during the financial crisis HCSR firms optimized labor cost by laying off significantly more employees than LCSR firms, which provides an explanation to a prior finding that HCSR firms have higher returns and profitability during crisis years, relative to LCSR firms. These results, consistent with enlightened stakeholder theory, fill a noteworthy gap in the CSR literature by providing evidence on how firms adopting a “good corporate citizen” mindset respond to adverse economic forces that require employee-downsizing decisions.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Layoffs, Downsizing, Restructuring, Enlightened Stakeholder Theory

JEL Classification: G3, M4

Suggested Citation:

Collins, Denton and Fleischman, Gary and Sanchez, Daniela, The Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility on Employee Layoffs, Severance Payments, and Layoff Disclosure (October 10, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3265483 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3265483
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
948
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,488
RANK
56,390
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies