Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Sentiment and the Price of Corporate Sustainability

Financial Analysts Journal, 76 (2): 26-46.

56 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2018 Last revised: 16 Apr 2020

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Date Written: October 12, 2018

Abstract

Combining corporate sustainability performance scores based on environmental, social and governance (ESG) data with big data measuring public sentiment about a company’s sustainability performance, I find that the valuation premium paid for companies with strong sustainability performance has increased over time and that the premium is increasing as a function of positive public sentiment momentum. An ESG factor going long on firms with superior or increasing sustainability performance and negative sentiment momentum and short on firms with inferior or decreasing sustainability performance and positive sentiment momentum delivers significant positive alpha. This low sentiment ESG factor is uncorrelated with other factors, such as value, momentum, size, profitability and investment. In contrast, the high sentiment ESG factor delivers insignificant alpha and is strongly negatively correlated with the value factor. The evidence suggests that public sentiment influences investor views about the value of corporate sustainability activities and thereby both the price paid for corporate sustainability and the investment returns of portfolios that consider ESG data.

Keywords: corporate sustainability, ESG metrics, public sentiment, corporate valuation, investment management

JEL Classification: M4, G14, M2, G12

Suggested Citation:

Serafeim, George, Public Sentiment and the Price of Corporate Sustainability (October 12, 2018). Financial Analysts Journal, 76 (2): 26-46., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3265502 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3265502
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and How Investors Use ESG Information: Evidence from a Global Survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2018
Crossref
C S Asness , A Frazzini , L H Pedersen
Quality minus junk. AQR Working paper Posted: 2013
R Bénabou , J Tirole
Individual and corporate social responsibility
Economica , volume 77 , issue 305 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Barnea , A Rubin
Corporate social responsibility as a conflict between shareholders
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 71 - 86 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,445
ABSTRACT VIEWS
15,114
RANK
5,113
9 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies