Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Investors and Corporate Governance: The Incentive to Be Engaged

Journal of Finance, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2018 Last revised: 10 Mar 2021

Jonathan Lewellen

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Katharina Lewellen

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business

Date Written: February 28, 2021

Abstract

This paper studies institutional investors’ incentives to be engaged shareholders. We measure incentives as the increase in an institution’s management fees when a stockholding increases 1% in value, considering both the direct effect on assets under management and the indirect effect on subsequent fund flows. In 2017, the average institution gains an extra $129,000 in annual cash flow if a stock in its portfolio rises 1%. The estimates range from $19,600 for institutions’ investments in small firms to $307,600 for their investments in large firms. Institutional shareholders in one firm often gain when the firm’s competitors in the industry do well, by virtue of institutions’ holdings in those firms, but the impact of common ownership is modest in the most concentrated industries.

Keywords: Institutional Investors, Governance, Passive Investors, Common Ownership

JEL Classification: G23, G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Lewellen, Jonathan W. and Lewellen, Katharina, Institutional Investors and Corporate Governance: The Incentive to Be Engaged (February 28, 2021). Journal of Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3265761 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3265761
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,377
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,612
RANK
32,936
88 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies