Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Styles of Regulators: Evidence from the SEC’s Comment Letters

57 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2018

Truc (Peter) Do

University of Queensland - Faculty of Business, Economics and Law

Huai Zhang

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 14, 2018

Abstract

Security regulations are enforced by SEC staff members. Conceptually, the regulations are to be uniformly enforced despite personal differences among SEC enforcers. We offer evidence to the contrary. Using the SEC’s comment letters as our setting, we find that SEC staff members exhibit unique personal “styles.” The effects of their personal styles on firms’ remediation costs, the contents of SEC comment letters, and the quality of firms’ financial reporting are surprisingly large. We manually collect information on SEC staff members. Our results demonstrate that female staff members are generally tougher reviewers and that CPA qualification matters. Overall, our study offers evidence that SEC staff members exhibit individual differences, and their styles shape firms’ financial reporting.

Keywords: Regulation enforcement, SEC, Comment letters, Fixed effects

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Do, Truc (Peter) and Zhang, Huai, Styles of Regulators: Evidence from the SEC’s Comment Letters (October 14, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3266002 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3266002
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
M Abernethy , M Wallis
Critique on the "Manager Effects" Research and Implications for Management Accounting Research
Journal of Management Accounting Research Posted: 2018
Crossref
J M Abowd , R H Creecy , F Kramarz
Computing Person and Firm Effects Using Linked Longitudinal Employer-Employee Data Posted: 2002
J M Abowd , F Kramarz , D N Margolis
High Wage Workers and High Wage Firms
Econometrica , volume 67 , issue 2 , p. 251 - 333 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A S Ahmed , R A Schneible
The Impact of Regulation Fair Disclosure on Investors' Prior Information Quality -Evidence from an Analysis of Changes in Trading Volume and Stock Price Reactions to Earnings Announcements
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 13 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 282 - 299 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,470
RANK
282,907
6 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies