Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Islamic Governance on Minimizing Non-Compliance with Sharia

Acc. Fin. Review 3 (3) 70-76 (2018)

7 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2018

Tettet Fitrijanti

Universitas Padjajaran

Winwin Yadiati

Universitas Padjajaran

Date Written: September 30, 2018

Abstract

Objective – One of the operational objectives of sharia banks is to comply with sharia principles. Therefore, the noncompliance of sharia banks to sharia law may be prevented by implementing Islamic Good Corporate Governance (GCG), which is controlled by the Sharia Supervisory Board (SSB), the board of directors, and the board of management.

Methodology/Technique – In this study, sharia non-compliance is defined as all cases of disobedience found in the report of sharia banks, covering things such as non-halal income, criminal law violations, civil law violations, and fraud. The unit of analysis of this research is sharia banks in Indonesia. Seven sharia banks were used as the study sample for the period between 2012 and 2015. The source of data for this study comprised of GCG annual reports. The data analysis method and hypothesis testing was conducted using a factor analysis and multiple regression analysis.

Findings – The findings show that higher levels of supervision from the SSB tend to minimize the instanc of sharia non-compliance as a whole, criminal and civil law violations, and fraud, although not to a level that is statistically significant.

Novelty – The influence of the board of management on non-halal income was negative, although statistically insignificant. The influence of the supervision from both the board of directors and the board of management on overall sharia non-compliance is also not statistically significant.

Type of Paper: Empirical.

Keywords: Sharia Non-compliance; Islamic Bank; Islamic GCG; Sharia Supervisory Board; Board of Directors; Board of Management

JEL Classification: M10, M14, M19

Suggested Citation:

Fitrijanti, Tettet and Yadiati, Winwin, The Influence of Islamic Governance on Minimizing Non-Compliance with Sharia (September 30, 2018). Acc. Fin. Review 3 (3) 70-76 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3267309
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
F Pomeranz
The accounting and auditing organization for Islamic financial institutions: An important regulatory debut
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 130 Posted: 1997
Crossref
M Alman
shari'ah supervisory board composition effects on Islamic banks' risk-taking behavior
Journal of Banking Regulation , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 134 - 163 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Abdullah Saif Alnasser , S Muhammed , J
Introduction to corporate governance from Islamic perspective
Humanomics , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 220 - 231 Posted: 2012
Acc. Fin. Review , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 70 - 76 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
995
RANK
580,030
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies