Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the Mispricing of Bank Earnings Related to Financial Regulation Uncertainty?

Posted: 9 Nov 2018 Last revised: 28 Jan 2021

Tuan Quoc Ho

University of Bristol

Edward Lee

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Zhenmei (Judy) Zhu

Fudan University - School of Management

Date Written: October 17, 2018

Abstract

We examine the impact of financial regulation uncertainty on the mispricing of earnings in the banking sector. To the extent that the uncertainty generated by the regulatory process can trigger opinion divergence (rational attention), we expect it to delay (accelerate) the share price responses to banks’ earnings news. Consistent with the dominance of the opinion divergence effect, we show that such uncertainty incrementally increases post-earnings announcement drift among banks relative to industrial firms. Further analyses through analyst forecast error, analyst forecast dispersion, and idiosyncratic return volatility provide corroborative evidence, and these effects are stronger among banks with lower capital adequacy.

Keywords: Financial regulation uncertainty; market information efficiency; post-earnings announcement drift; banks

JEL Classification: G21, M41, G18, G14

Suggested Citation:

Ho, Tuan Quoc and Lee, Edward and Lobo, Gerald J. and Zhu, Zhenmei, Is the Mispricing of Bank Earnings Related to Financial Regulation Uncertainty? (October 17, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3267821
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,519
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies