Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance and Internal Information Asymmetry

Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2018

Zawadi Lemayian

Washington University in St. Louis

Yingnan (Chris) Yi

Washington University in St. Louis

Date Written: May 1, 2018

Abstract

We investigate the impact of a firm’s internal information asymmetry on its tax planning. Firms with more informed lower-level managers are described as having high internal information asymmetry, while those where top-level managers know more are characterized as having low internal information asymmetry. Using differences between top- and division-level managers’ trading profits of their own company’s stock as a proxy for internal information asymmetry, we show that tax avoidance is higher for firms with high information asymmetry. Further, we find the tax savings are greater for geographically dispersed firms, consistent with divisional managers playing a bigger role in key decisions of operationally complex firms. Overall, our study adds to the understanding of divisional managers’ roles. By showing that their information advantage impacts overall tax strategy, we contribute to a burgeoning stream of research which shows divisional managers matter for significant firm outcomes such as valuation and external financial reporting quality.

Keywords: tax avoidance, internal information asymmetry

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Lemayian, Zawadi and Yi, Yingnan (Chris), Tax Avoidance and Internal Information Asymmetry (May 1, 2018). Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3268914
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
V V Acharya , S C Myers , R G Rajan
The internal governance of firms
The Journal of Finance , volume 66 , issue 3 , p. 689 - 720 Posted: 2011
Crossref
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and real authority in organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A E Bernardo , H Cai , J Luo
Capital budgeting and compensation with asymmetric information and moral hazard
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 61 , issue 3 , p. 311 - 344 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,763
RANK
311,489
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies