Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proprietary Costs and Sealing Documents in Patent Litigation

Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 23, No. #2, 2017

57 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2018

Richard M. Frankel

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin Business School

Joshua A. Lee

Brigham Young University

Zawadi Lemayian

Washington University in St. Louis

Date Written: December 1, 2017

Abstract

We study whether the sealing of a defendant’s judicial records during a patent lawsuit filing correlates with the defendant’s level of competition and disclosure. Courts permit sealing of judicial records when competitive damage outweighs the public interest in access to documents and records. We find that defendants with sealed judicial records have higher research and development (R&D), lower industry sales concentration, and more references to competition in their annual reports than defendants without sealed judicial records. We observe faster mean reversion of return on net operating assets when courts seal defendant records. The results suggest that sealing relates to archival measures of competition. Finally, consistent with proprietary costs restraining disclosure, we find that defendants with sealed judicial records are less likely to issue management forecasts, file 8-Ks less frequently, and have longer and less readable 10-Ks.

Keywords: proprietary costs

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Frankel, Richard M. and Lee, Joshua A. and Lemayian, Zawadi, Proprietary Costs and Sealing Documents in Patent Litigation (December 1, 2017). Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 23, No. #2, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3268920
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,525
RANK
658,366
2 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies