Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unraveling the Effect of Alliance Experience on Alliance Formation and Alliance Governance Structure: A Meta-Analytic Approach

Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 43, No. 4, 2018

Posted: 10 Nov 2018

Peng Wang

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Yongyuan Ma

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Zhongquan Hu

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Date Written: July 25, 2018

Abstract

Alliance experience plays a crucial role in the stage of alliance formation. However, theoretical gaps and empirical controversies exist in the analyses of its effects on alliance formation and alliance governance structure. Drawing on the method of meta-analysis, we have systematically searched and coded previous empirical studies, generating a database of 91 empirical studies in all. Through classifying alliance experience into general and partner-specific alliance experience, we seek to examine the different effects of these two types of alliance experience on alliance formation and alliance governance structure. We enrich the classification of alliance experience in terms of governance structure to address the disadvantages of this classification in explaining the resulting effects. Our research uses meta-regression to provide evidence about how contextual contingencies affect the alliance experience–alliance governance structure link.

Keywords: alliance experience, alliance formation, alliance governance structure, meta-analysis

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Peng and Ma, Yongyuan and Hu, Zhongquan, Unraveling the Effect of Alliance Experience on Alliance Formation and Alliance Governance Structure: A Meta-Analytic Approach (July 25, 2018). Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 43, No. 4, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3269373
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
776
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies