Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Facade of Patriotism/Social Responsibility: Corporate Boards As Sources of Risk

APIRA 2018, Conference Proceedings, Auckland

29 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2018 Last revised: 16 Aug 2021

C. A. Saliya

Sri Lanka Institute of Information Technology

Date Written: October 19, 2018

Abstract

This research seeks to explore and show how and why the powerful bank owners disregard normal banking practices in credit evaluation and expose banks for huge credit risk and become sources rather than managers of risk. This research report shows how and why the corporate board of a private bank in Sri Lanka finds loopholes to escape from, or/and simply violate certain regulatory requirements and statutory directives that are in place to minimize risks and strengthen stability.

The methodology used in this research is ethnographic case study research methodology using critical theory approach. The researcher was unable to find related research in Sri Lanka, although this likely increased the originality of this research topic, it also prevented the researcher building on, and comparing this research findings with previous research findings regarding this research topic.

The empirical research findings show how the powerful bank owners misuse or abuse the legitimate authority of their corporate boards and approve credit facilities based on ‘trust’ under the façades such as social responsibility and patriotism. Such decisions expose financial institutions not only to huge credit risk but also to risks of loosing reputation in trustworthiness/ reliability and even creating a bad image on stability, especially to banks which are supposed to be the guardians or trustees of public funds/deposits.

Based on my theoretical analysis and interpretation I argue that they make such decisions to protect and strengthen their own socio-economic power base. The paper has important implications for finance regulators and bank supervisors in Sri Lanka and beyond especially in the Third World countries. Also the paper attempts to fill a gap in the literature pertaining to the motives, mechanisms and outcomes of certain credit decisions made by corporate boards of banks with regards to risk management.

Keywords: Banking, CSR, Risk of Corporate Board, Sri Lanka, Credit Risk

JEL Classification: O160

Suggested Citation:

Saliya, Candauda Arachchige, Facade of Patriotism/Social Responsibility: Corporate Boards As Sources of Risk (October 19, 2018). APIRA 2018, Conference Proceedings, Auckland, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3270060 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3270060
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
664
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies