Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Responsibility – A Review of the Concept

22 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2018 Last revised: 19 Nov 2018

Patrick Jahnke

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 18, 2018

Abstract

This paper reviews the literature on the topic of shareholder responsibility, a concept that has received surprisingly little public attention. The challenge of the present-day investment chain, in which private individuals invest in capital markets through mutual funds and ETFs, is that it further diffuses responsibility. Institutional investors in today’s ‘asset manager capitalism’ carry greater responsibility than individual investors did in the past. This conceptual paper sets out the moral foundation for shareholders’ responsibility and describes how the responsibility of shareholding is diffused along the ‘investment chain’. It finds that the overall level of shareholder responsibility has increased as a result of the institutionalization of investment. Furthermore, while the ultimate owners retain some responsibility, the majority of responsibility has been shifted to the asset managers. Amongst institutional investors, a moral case can be made that the level of responsibility increases with assets under management. This paper therefore advocates institutional investors invest in expanding their corporate governance departments in order to ensure the continuity of their social licenses to operate and to avoid incremental regulation.

Keywords: Asset Management, Responsibility, Ethics, Mutual Funds, ETFs

JEL Classification: G15, G23, G28, L21

Suggested Citation:

Jahnke, Patrick, Shareholder Responsibility – A Review of the Concept (November 18, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3270287 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3270287
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,186
RANK
409,437
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies