Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Structure and Dividend Policy: Evidence from South Asia

Posted: 18 Nov 2018

Hammad Hassan Mirza

Noon Business School

Date Written: December 23, 2014

Abstract

Cash dividend is among the most important sources of cash flow for the shareholders through which they gauge firm’s performance. Corporate managers also use dividends to signal company’s financial strength to attract potential investors. Empirical findings on determinants of dividend policy provide mixed and inconclusive results which has made the whole issue a “puzzle” as described by Black (1976), whose pieces do not fit together. Allen et. al. (2000) argued the dividend problem as one of the thorniest puzzles in corporate finance. The present study investigates the relationship between managers’ ownership and dividend policy in emerging economies of South Asia. The data of listed non-financial companies is collected from Bangladesh, India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka and analyzed with least square and Tobit regression models during the period 2006-2010. It is found that managers’ ownership is significantly and positively related with dividend payout in Bangladesh and India but negatively related in Pakistan and Sri Lanka.

Keywords: Dividend Policy

JEL Classification: Dividend Policy

Suggested Citation:

Mirza, Hammad Hassan, Ownership Structure and Dividend Policy: Evidence from South Asia (December 23, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3271864
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,200
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies