Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Amazon’s Acquisition of Whole Foods: A Case-Specific Analytical Study of the Impact of Announcement of M&A on Share Price

The IUP Journal of Business Strategy, Vol. XV, No. 2, June 2018, pp. 31-45

Posted: 17 Nov 2018

Diwahar Sunder Nadar

SVKM's Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS)

Date Written: October 25, 2018

Abstract

Previous studies have proved that the announcement of an intended merger or acquisition has an impact on the share prices of the companies involved. Market share price has therefore been a key indicator of understanding the market sentiments about the merger or acquisition. This study is with specific reference to the Amazon-Whole Foods deal in which the share price of both the companies increased after the announcement, which is a unique phenomenon. This qualitative study tries to understand the factors of the deal that could have affected the market sentiments and thereby impacted the share price. The study employs various literature for identification of the factors and FCFF model for valuation. With the aid of the literature studied, the factors identified were synergy, payment methods and cultural compatibility, amongst others. The study will provide a holistic understanding of the dynamics that caused the increase in share prices following Amazon’s acquisition of Whole Foods Market.

Suggested Citation:

Nadar, Diwahar Sunder, Amazon’s Acquisition of Whole Foods: A Case-Specific Analytical Study of the Impact of Announcement of M&A on Share Price (October 25, 2018). The IUP Journal of Business Strategy, Vol. XV, No. 2, June 2018, pp. 31-45, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3272629
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,759
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies