Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Integrating Reporting on Earnings Quality: A Study of Family Firms in Indonesia

J. Fin. Bank. Review 3 (3) 34–40 (2018)

7 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2018

Shanti .

Widya Mandala Chatolic University; Airlangga University, Students

Bambang Tjahjadi

Airlangga University

I Made Narsa

Airlangga University

Date Written: September 30, 2018

Abstract

Objective – The implementation of integrated reporting (IR), which is a composite of financial and non-financial information, in one single report makes financial reporting more comprehensive and more transparent. Transparent information in IR gives annual reporting of family firms a higher earnings quality.

Methodology/Technique – This research aims to examine the effect of IR on earnings quality of family firms in the mining industry on the Indonesian Stock Exchange between 2014 and 2017.

Findings – The results of this study indicate that there is a positive and significant relationship between integrating reporting and earnings quality. These results confirm that firms that use integrated reporting tend to show higher earnings quality. The study also finds that larger sized companies and larger leverage amounts equals a higher volume of information disclosed.

Novelty – The motivation of this research is to examine IR issues that are relatively new.

Type of Paper: Empirical.

Keywords: Earnings Quality, Family Firms, Financial Reporting, Indonesia, Integrated Reporting

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

., Shanti and Tjahjadi, Bambang and Narsa, I Made, The Effect of Integrating Reporting on Earnings Quality: A Study of Family Firms in Indonesia (September 30, 2018). J. Fin. Bank. Review 3 (3) 34–40 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3273901
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
A K Achleitner , N Gunther , C Kaserer , G Siciliano
Real Earnings Management and Accrual-based Earnings Management in Family Firms
European Accounting Review , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 431 - 461 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Adriana
Analisis Kesiapan Menerapkan IR Pada Index LQ-45
Thesis Master of Accounting Faculty of Economics and Business Posted: 2015
J F Atkins , W Maroun
Integrated reporting in South Africa in 2012: Perspectives from South African institutional investors
Meditari Accountancy Research , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 197 - 221 Posted: 2015
R Ball , L Shivakumar
The role of accruals in asymmetrically timely gain and loss recognition
Journal of accounting research , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 242 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
343
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,753
RANK
200,166
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies