Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Investors Care About Director Tenure? Insights from Executive Cognition and Social Capital Theories

Organization Science, Vol. 28 (3).

Posted: 18 Nov 2018

Jill A. Brown

Bentley University

Anne M. Anderson

University of Arizona

Jesus M. Salas

Lehigh University - Department of Finance and Law

Andrew Ward

University of Georgia - Department of Management

Date Written: October 26, 2018

Abstract

Governance scholars debate the value of directors as an effective governance mechanism. We suggest that this value varies with director tenure. We study both how shareholder assessments of the value of individual directors vary with director tenure and whether director tenure actually makes a practical difference to governance effectiveness. Using data from abnormal stock price reactions to the sudden deaths of 274 outside directors, and integrating executive cognition and social capital perspectives applied to the dual roles of director monitoring and advising, our results confirm a curvilinear relationship between the assessed value of directors and tenure. We find that directors are more highly valued by investors over a tenure period between 7 and 18 years, moderated by director involvement on key committees. Further, in examining the S&P 1,500, we find that a one standard deviation increase in the percentage of outside directors in this prime tenure period strengthens the CEO pay-performance linkage by 2.5%, suggesting that directors in this tenure period are more effective in aligning CEO and shareholder interests. Our results demonstrate that individual director tenure makes a difference in governance effectiveness, and shareholders accurately assess this difference. Additionally, our findings provide important boundary conditions for when theories of executive cognition and social capital may be more/less applicable regarding director tenure.

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Jill A. and Anderson, Anne M. and Salas, Jesus M. and Ward, Andrew J., Do Investors Care About Director Tenure? Insights from Executive Cognition and Social Capital Theories (October 26, 2018). Organization Science, Vol. 28 (3)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3273585
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,117
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies