Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of the Success of Corporate Recovery in Financial Distressed Company

J. Fin. Bank. Review 3 (2) 9–14 (2018)

6 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2018

Giriati

Tanjungpura University

Mustaruddin

Tanjungpura University

M. Rustam

Tanjungpura University

Date Written: June 30, 2018

Abstract

Objective – This study aims to examine and analyze the influence of severity, free assets, company size, asset retrenchment and CEO expertise on the success of recovery companies experiencing financial distress that are listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange (IDX).

Methodology/Technique – The population used in this study are all companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange between 2011 and 2016. This study uses a simple logistic regression analysis to test the hypotheses.

Findings – The results indicate that free assets and CEO expertise have a significant and positive effect on the success of a company’s recovery. Meanwhile, variable severity, asset retrenchment and firm size do not affect the success of the company's recovery.

Type of Paper: Empirical.

Keywords: Turnaround/Recovery, Severity, Free Assets, Company Size, Asset Retrenchment, CEO Expertise

JEL Classification: G30, G33, G39

Suggested Citation:

Giriati and Mustaruddin, Mustaruddin and Rustam, M., Determinants of the Success of Corporate Recovery in Financial Distressed Company (June 30, 2018). J. Fin. Bank. Review 3 (2) 9–14 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3273903
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,060
RANK
538,134
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies