Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Trading Rights and Ownership Structure on the Informativeness of Accounting Earnings: Evidence from China’ Split Share Structure Reform

42 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2018

Li Zhang

Thompson Rivers University

Date Written: July 20, 2018

Abstract

In this paper, I examine the effects of trading rights and ownership structure on earnings informativeness around China’s split share structure reform. The reform removed trading restrictions on non-tradable shares. I find that earnings informativeness drops after the reform, especially for firms with concentrated controllers’ ownership. This is consistent with the idea that trading rights give controllers incentives to influence stock prices through managing earnings. I also find that earnings informativeness decreases with reduction in controllers’ ownership. This effect is more significant for firms with controllers that are not state-owned enterprises or controllers without effective monitors before the reform. The results are consistent with the idea that controllers reduce earnings informativeness in response to the dilution of their ownership to avoid the constraints arising from the increased monitoring by outside investors.

Keywords: Earnings Informativeness; Trading Rights; Ownership Structure; Split Share Structure

JEL Classification: M41; G14; G28

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Li, The Effects of Trading Rights and Ownership Structure on the Informativeness of Accounting Earnings: Evidence from China’ Split Share Structure Reform (July 20, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3273023 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3273023
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,268
RANK
527,931
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies