Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Corporate Governance–Risk Taking Nexus: Evidence from Insurance Companies

International Journal of Ethics and Systems, Vol. 34, Issue 4, 2018

26 Pages Posted: 26 Nov 2018

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Aws Alhares

University of Huddersfield

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Ismail Benyazid

Asmarya University

Date Written: October 26, 2018

Abstract

Purpose: This study aims to examine the impact of internal corporate governance mechanisms on insurance companies’ risk-taking in the UK context.

Design/methodology/approach: The study uses a panel data of all listed insurance companies on FTSE 350 over the 2005-2014 period. Multivariate regression techniques are used to estimate the effect of internal corporate governance mechanisms on insurance companies’ risk-taking.

Findings: The results show that the board size and board meetings are significantly and negatively related to risk-taking. In contrast, the results show that board independence and audit committee size are statistically insignificant but negatively related to risk-taking. The findings are robust to alternative measures and endogeneities.

Research limitations/implications: The findings have important implications for investors, managers, regulators of financial institutions and effectiveness of corporate governance reforms that have been pursued. Investors may further rely on internal corporate governance attributes to form expectations about risk-taking behaviour. Insurance companies need strong governance, as well as effective accounting and financial reporting standards, to enable proper insights into the company’s financial position.

Originality/value: This study contributes to the corporate governance literature and creates significant evidence regarding the role of corporate governance in constraining risk-taking behaviour in an industry with significantly complex context.

Keywords: UK, Agency Theory, Corporate Governance, Risk-Taking, Insurance Companies

JEL Classification: G21, G32, G34, G38, M48

Suggested Citation:

Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Alhares, Aws and Ntim, Collins G. and Benyazid, Ismail, The Corporate Governance–Risk Taking Nexus: Evidence from Insurance Companies (October 26, 2018). International Journal of Ethics and Systems, Vol. 34, Issue 4, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3273595
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
M Adams , W Jiang
Do outside directors influence the financial performance of risk-trading firms? Evidence from the United Kingdom (UK) insurance industry
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 64 , p. 36 - 51 Posted: 2016
Crossref
G A Afrifa , V Tauringana
Corporate governance and performance of UK listed small and medium enterprises. Corporate Governance: The international journal of business in society , volume 15 , p. 719 - 733 Posted: 2015
B H Baltagi , Y Deng
EC3SLS estimator for a simultaneous system of spatial autoregressive equations with random effects
Econometric Reviews , volume 34 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 659 - 694 Posted: 2015
Crossref
C P Barros , S Boubaker , A Hamrouni
Corporate governance and voluntary disclosure in France
Journal of Applied Business Research , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 561 - 578 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,534
RANK
552,669
13 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies