Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reverse the Curse of the Top-5

Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 19-052

Harvard Business School General Management Unit Working Paper No. 19-052

19 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2018

Robert S. Kaplan

Harvard Business School

Date Written: October 29, 2018

Abstract

The past 40 years has seen a large increase in the number of articles submitted to journals ranked in the top-5 of their discipline. This increase is the rational response, by faculty, to the overweighting of publications in these journals by university promotions and tenure committees. The ranking factors for academic journals, however, arose for a completely different purpose, to guide the journal acquisition decisions by budget-constrained university librarians. Using journal impact factors to infer the quality of an faculty members’ publications incurs a high incidence of both Type 1 errors, when we conclude incorrectly that a paper published in a top-5 journal is a high-impact paper, and Type 2 errors, when we conclude that papers (and books) not published in top-5 journals have low impact. In addition, a third type of error gets introduced as faculty pursue the research they perceive is favored by editors of top-5 journals, at the potential expense of more innovative and relevant research, perceived to be unpublishable in a top-tier journal. Accounting scholarship, in particular, has underinvested in research about innovative practices or the emerging accounting issues faced by contemporary organizations (Kaplan, 2011), likely because such research is viewed as unpublishable in top-5 journals. This gap persists despite recent scholarship that has documented how important, fundamental ideas can emerge from “use-inspired” research (see Pasteur’s Quadrant (Stokes, 1997)). The paper concludes by suggesting reforms to overcome the dysfunctional fixation on publication in top-5 journals.

Suggested Citation:

Kaplan, Robert S., Reverse the Curse of the Top-5 (October 29, 2018). Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 19-052, Harvard Business School General Management Unit Working Paper No. 19-052, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3274782 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3274782
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Vannevar Bush
Science: The Endless Frontier. Washington DC: US Government Printing Office Posted: 1945
Ewen Callay
Beat it, impact factor! Publishing elite turns against controversial metric
Nature , volume 14 , p. 210 - 211 Posted: 2016-07
Crossref
Anne Case , Angus Deaton
Rising morbidity and mortality in midlife among white non-Hispanics Americans in the 21st century
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , volume 112 , issue 49 , p. 15078 - 83 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Case , A Deaton
Mortality and Morbidity in the 21 Century
Brookings Panel on Economic Activity Posted: 2017-03-23
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
459
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,342
RANK
143,763
9 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies