Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Corporate Environmental Performance on Corporate Financial Performance

Annual Review of Resource Economics, Vol. 10, Issue 1, pp. 425-444, 2018

Posted: 29 Oct 2018

Dietrich Earnhart

University of Kansas - Department of Economics; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Date Written: October 2018

Abstract

This review explores the effect of corporate environmental performance on financial performance. In particular, it reviews the empirical evidence on this effect. Conceptually, stronger environmental performance may lead to worse or better financial performance. The empirical literature generally finds a positive link from good environmental performance to financial success. However, many studies reveal a negative link. Given this mixed evidence, literature reviews and meta-analyses help to discern the conditions under which better environmental performance prompts financial success or disappointment. Similarly, this review organizes the empirical evidence by the specific measures of environmental performance and financial performance to discern which links are positive or negative. Lastly, the review identifies shortcomings in the empirical literature and offers suggestions for future research. For example, analyses should more fully explore the factors shaping the links from environmental to financial performance, such as firm size and economy type (e.g., mature market).

Suggested Citation:

Earnhart, Dietrich, The Effect of Corporate Environmental Performance on Corporate Financial Performance (October 2018). Annual Review of Resource Economics, Vol. 10, Issue 1, pp. 425-444, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3274144 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1146/annurev-resource-100517-023007
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,020
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies