Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Spillover Effects of Credit Default Swaps on Corporate Disclosure along the Supply Chain

40 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2018 Last revised: 7 Mar 2023

Matthew C. Cedergren

Santa Clara University

Ting Luo

Tsinghua University

Jing Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Jianqiao Yu

University of Pittsburgh; Tianjin University

Yue Zhang

Lingnan University

Date Written: January 24, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the effect of customers’ CDS referencing on suppliers’ management forecasting activity. We argue that customers’ CDS referencing increases the suppliers’ business volatility, making forecasting more difficult. At the same time, the information from customers’ CDS market reduces investors’ demand for the suppliers’ disclosure and induces the suppliers to scale back their own disclosure. We find consistent evidence that firms that derive a greater proportion of their revenue from CDS-referenced customers tend to reduce their frequency of forecast issuance. This relationship is stronger when the supplier’s business relies more on CDS-referenced customers (thus strengthening the effect of customer CDS referencing on suppliers’ forecasting difficulty). In comparison, the relationship is weaker when customers have more analyst following (thus resulting in less incremental information produced by customer CDS referencing). Further analysis shows that the negative relationship between the supplier's forecasting activity and its exposure to CDS-referenced customer firms is driven by good news forecasts, possibly due to the higher litigation risk associated with disclosing good news and withholding bad news. Our findings add to the literature examining the spillover effects of CDSs on entities outside those directly referenced by CDSs.

Keywords: corporate disclosure; credit default swaps; customer-supplier relationship; externalities

JEL Classification: M41, L14

Suggested Citation:

Cedergren, Matthew C. and Luo, Ting and Wu, Jing and Yu, Jianqiao and Zhang, Yue, Spillover Effects of Credit Default Swaps on Corporate Disclosure along the Supply Chain (January 24, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3274954 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3274954
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
V V Acharya , Y Amihud , L Litov
Creditor rights and corporate risk-taking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 150 - 166 Posted: 2011
V V Acharya , T C Johnson
Insider trading in credit derivatives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 84 , p. 110 - 141 Posted: 2007
S Agca , V Babich , J Birge , J Wu
Credit shock propagation along supply chains: Evidence from the CDS market
Management Science , volume 68 , issue 9 , p. 6506 - 6538 Posted: 2022
I Aldasoro , T Ehlers
The credit default swap market: What a difference a decade makes
BIS Quarterly Review Posted: 2018-06
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
415
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,905
RANK
161,650
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies