Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Controlling Shareholder’s Share Pledging and Accounting Manipulations

54 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2018 Last revised: 23 Feb 2020

Douglas V. DeJong

University of Iowa - Tippie College of Business

Ke LIAO

University of Electronic Science and Technology of China (UESTC) - School of Economics and Management

Deren Xie

Tsinghua University

Date Written: February 10, 2020

Abstract

A controlling shareholder can pledge shares to secure personal loans while retaining control of the firm, but share pledging increases the risk of a margin call and the possibility of losing control of the firm. We investigate how share pledging by controlling shareholders influences the financial reporting of the firm. Considering the different pledgor ‘types’, incentives and institutions across countries, we detail and take advantage of these differences and data availability to focus on China-listed firms. We find that firms with controlling shareholders pledging their shares are more likely to manipulate accounting numbers of the firm to avoid such margin call risks. Specifically, we find that firms with controlling shareholders pledging their shares have more positive discretionary accruals, more income-increasing real earnings management, and a higher propensity of using non-recurring items to avoid losses. We find that the level of accrual-based earnings management declines while levels of real earnings management and non-recurring items continue as the controlling shareholder repeatedly pledges his\her shares. Such manipulations reverse when controlling shareholders cease their pledge. Firms with controlling shareholders who pledge their shares exhibit more restatements, worse audit opinions, and more sanctions by regulators, which implies financial reporting quality suffers. Collectively, our evidence is consistent with the view that with shares pledged as collateral, the controlling shareholder responds to the incentives and institutions in place by exerting influence over the firm’s financial reporting to defend the value of the share price.

Keywords: Share Pledging, Controlling Shareholders, Accounting Manipulations

JEL Classification: G14, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

DeJong, Douglas V. and LIAO, Ke and Xie, Deren, Controlling Shareholder’s Share Pledging and Accounting Manipulations (February 10, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3274388 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3274388
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,349
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,549
RANK
33,945
14 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies