Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate Governance on Corporate Tax Avoidance – A Literature Review

Posted: 19 Nov 2018 Last revised: 26 Dec 2020

Jost Kovermann

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Date Written: October 29, 2018

Abstract

In this article, we review recent literature (79 articles) on the impact of corporate governance on corporate tax avoidance. Applying a stakeholder-oriented view, we find that various aspects of corporate governance, such as incentive alignment between management and shareholders, board composition, ownership structure, capital market monitoring, audit, enforcement and government relations and other stakeholders’ pressure have a strong influence on corporate tax avoidance. Findings indicate that effective corporate governance mechanisms steer tax avoidance at its firm-specific optimal level. The classical principal-agent theory, however, fails to fully explain corporate tax avoidance as an outcome. Investigating the determinants of corporate tax avoidance requires a more comprehensive approach taking into account corporate governance institutions and all stakeholders that are relevant to the firm. We show that corporate governance institutions not only have the potential to increase tax avoidance, making firms more profitable, but also to limit tax avoidance to a level where the arising risks do not outweigh the benefits.

Keywords: tax avoidance, management compensation, ownership structure, auditing, enforcement, corporate social responsibility

Suggested Citation:

Kovermann, Jost and Velte, Patrick, The Impact of Corporate Governance on Corporate Tax Avoidance – A Literature Review (October 29, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3274498
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,306
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies