Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Organizational Culture on Voluntary Disclosure (Evidence from Tehran Stock Exchange)

International Journal of Finance and Managerial Accounting, Vol. 2, No. 6, Summer 2017

14 Pages Posted: 26 Nov 2018

Javad Mohammadi

University of Mazandaran (UMZ), Faculty of Economic and Administrative Sciences, Department of Accounting, Students

Hossein Fakhari

University of Mazandaran (UMZ)

Date Written: June 30, 2017

Abstract

Many organizational and environmental factors affect the information disclosure and the quality of its presentation; organizational culture is the most important factor among these factors. The organizational culture that is based on transparency will provide the information environment dynamism and it will also lead to the improvement of the quality of information disclosure by the business units. This effect is more prominent especially in the countries such as Iran which has a variety of tribes and population groups with different cultures. In this regard, the aim of this study is to evaluate the impact of organizational culture on the voluntary disclosure in Iranian firms. The study of organizational culture of Iranian firms and its impact on the voluntary disclosure in 2015 has shown that the organizational culture that is based on involvement and consistency has a positive and significant impact on the voluntary disclosure of information. Also, the organizational culture based on a mission has an adverse impact on the voluntary disclosure. These results could be useful for the policies of the senior managers of Iranian firms in the field of organizational culture and they will also lead to the improvement of the implementation of accountability procedures. Also, by identifying and modifying the types of company's organizational culture, we can lead to the enhancement of the voluntary disclosure.

Keywords: Organizational Culture, Voluntary Disclosure, Legitimacy, Information Economy

Suggested Citation:

Mohammadi, Javad and Fakhari, Hossein, The Impact of Organizational Culture on Voluntary Disclosure (Evidence from Tehran Stock Exchange) (June 30, 2017). International Journal of Finance and Managerial Accounting, Vol. 2, No. 6, Summer 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3275309 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3275309
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
C Ax , J Greve
Adoption of management accounting innovations: Organizational culture compatibility and perceived outcomes. Management Accounting Research
Available at SSRN 2814205 Posted: 2016
Crossref
C A Botosan
Disclosure level and the cost of equity capital
Accounting review , volume 72 , p. 323 - 349 Posted: 1997
T Bourveau , J Schoenfeld
Shareholder activism and voluntary disclosure, Available at SSRN 2668304 Posted: 2016
R M Bushman , A J Smith
Financial accounting information and corporate governance
Journal of accounting and Economics , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 237 - 333 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,089
RANK
759,678
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies