Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Independent Directors in India and USA: A Comparative Study of Provisions

The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XVII, No. 3, July 2018, pp. 7-23

Posted: 21 Nov 2018

Kamal Kishore

Apeejay School of Management

Date Written: October 31, 2018

Abstract

An independent director is a non-executive director who is devoid of any material conflict of interest with the company or its promoters. In the aftermath of various serious corporate frauds and incidents of mismanagement, investor confidence was badly hurt. To restore a degree of confidence in the investors in companies, many committees were constituted in different countries, and most of them recommended, as one of the measures to remedy the situation, the concept of independent director on corporate boards. India too adopted the concept initially through codes/ recommendations made by committees and lately by incorporating necessary provisions in the New Companies Act, introduced in 2013, in an elaborate way. The USA provisions on independent directors emanate from listing manual of stock exchange and are generally similar to Indian regulations. The present paper examines different aspects of independent directors in the two important jurisdictions of India and USA in a comparative way. It is observed that both the countries have laid focus on absence of conflict of interest to determine the independent status of a director. Indian law prescribes one third of independent directors, while in USA, a majority of directors have to be independent. There are various similarities in the provisions relating to independent directors in the two countries.

Suggested Citation:

Kishore, Kamal, Independent Directors in India and USA: A Comparative Study of Provisions (October 31, 2018). The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XVII, No. 3, July 2018, pp. 7-23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3275905
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,746
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies