Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unintended Consequences of the Dodd-Frank Act on Credit Rating Risk and Corporate Finance

Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2018 Last revised: 9 Apr 2021

Bina Sharma

Bellevue University; University of Texas Rio Grande Valley

Binay Adhikari

University of Texas at San Antonio

Anup Agrawal

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

Bruno R. Arthur

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) (Formerly University of Texas-Pan American)

Monika K. Rabarison

The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley

Date Written: April 8, 2021

Abstract

Prior research finds that Dodd-Frank Act’s regulations on credit rating agencies (CRAs) increase rated firms’ risk of rating downgrades, regardless of their credit quality (see Dimitrov, Palia and Tang (2015)). Our difference-in-differences estimates suggest that after Dodd-Frank, low-rated firms, which face steep costs from a further downgrade, significantly reduce their debt issuance and investments compared to similar unrated firms. Our results are not driven by credit supply or the financial crisis. They reveal an unintended consequence of Dodd-Frank: Greater regulatory pressure on CRAs leads to negative spillover effects on firms concerned about credit ratings, regardless of their credit quality.

Keywords: Dodd-Frank Act, Credit Rating, Financing, Investment

JEL Classification: G32, G31, G38, G23

Suggested Citation:

Sharma, Bina and Adhikari, Binay Kumar and Agrawal, Anup and Arthur, Bruno R. and Rabarison, Monika, Unintended Consequences of the Dodd-Frank Act on Credit Rating Risk and Corporate Finance (April 8, 2021). Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3276309 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3276309
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Miguel A Ferreira , Pedro Matos
The Colors of Investors' Money: The Role of Institutional Investors Around the World
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 88 , p. 499 - 533 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Feng Gao , Joanna Shuang Wu , Jerold Zimmerman
Unintended Consequences of Granting Small Firms Exemptions from Securities Regulation: Evidence from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , p. 459 - 506 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Anand M. Goel , Anjan V. Thakor
Credit Ratings and Litigation Risk
Pages: 39 Posted: 21 Mar 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John R Graham , Harvey
The Theory and Practice of Corporate Finance: Evidence from the Field
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 60 , p. 187 - 243 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
471
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,453
RANK
139,359
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies