Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Career Concerns and Enterprise Risk Management Adoption

44 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2018

Muhammed Altuntas

University of Cologne - Department of Risk Management and Insurance

Thomas Berry-Stölzle

University of Iowa - Department of Finance

Robert E. Hoyt

University of Georgia - C. Herman and Mary Virginia Terry College of Business

Date Written: October 2018

Abstract

Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) is the approach of managing all risks faced by a firm in an integrated, holistic fashion. This research analyzes factors that influence a firm’s decision to start an ERM program. We argue that top management’s decision to adopt ERM is influenced by managerial career concerns about keeping their jobs. ERM adoption reduces the volatility of a firm’s earnings and, hence, improves the informativeness of earnings as a signal of the manager’s ability. The career concerns view predicts that a manager with a high initial reputation should only adopt ERM after a period of poor performance. Consistent with this prediction, we find that negative changes in past firm performance increase a firm’s probability to adopt ERM and are accompanied by significant improvements in the quality of a firm’s risk management process.

Keywords: Enterprise risk management, hedging, career concerns

JEL Classification: C33, G22, G32, M12

Suggested Citation:

Altuntas, Muhammed and Berry-Stölzle, Thomas and Hoyt, Robert E., Managerial Career Concerns and Enterprise Risk Management Adoption (October 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3277180 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3277180
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
T Aabo , J R S Fraser , B J Simkins
The Risk and Evolution of the Chief Risk Officer: Enterprise Risk Management at Hydro One
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 17 , p. 62 - 75 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Ai , V Bajtelsmit , T Wang
The Combined Effect of Enterprise Risk Management and Diversification on Property and Casualty Insurers Performance
Journal of Risk and Insurance Posted: 2017
Crossref
M Altuntas , T R Berry-Stölzle , R E Hoyt
Implementation of Enterprise Risk Management: Evidence from the German Property-Liability Insurance Industry
The Geneva Papers on Risk and Insurance -Issues and Practice , volume 36 , p. 414 - 439 Posted: 2011
Crossref
D Aunon-Nerin , P Ehling
Why Firms Purchase Property Insurance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 90 , p. 298 - 312 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
879
RANK
662,989
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies