Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Trustworthiness and Buybacks

Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Forthcoming

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2021-135

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper 703/2020

56 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2018 Last revised: 6 Feb 2022

Sterling Huang

New York University (NYU) - New York University (NYU), Shanghai

Kaisa Snellman

INSEAD - Organisational Behavior

Theo Vermaelen

INSEAD - Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: November 1, 2020

Abstract

CEO trustworthiness is positively related to long-term excess returns after buyback announcements. When the CEO is trustworthy, statements that the stock is undervalued are more credible. CEO trustworthiness is initially measured by the extent to which people in the county where the company headquarters is located trust each other. Further, the positive impact of trustworthiness on excess returns is higher when the CEO has been a long-term resident of a high-trust county, and correspondingly, trustworthy CEOs are less likely to be accused of financial misreporting. Our conclusions are confirmed when we use alternative measures of trustworthiness such as employee trust and CEO integrity.

Keywords: Buybacks, Market Timing, CEO Trustworthiness, Buyback Motivations

JEL Classification: G32, G30

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Sterling and Snellman, Kaisa and Vermaelen, Theo, Managerial Trustworthiness and Buybacks (November 1, 2020). Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Forthcoming, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2021-135, European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper 703/2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3277418 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3277418
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
A Alesina , E La Ferrara
Participation in Heterogeneous Communities
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 115 , p. 847 - 904 Posted: 2000
A Alesina , E La Ferrara
Who Trusts Others?
Journal of Public Economics , volume 85 , p. 207 - 234 Posted: 2002
Y Algan , Y Benkler , M Fuster Morell , ; , J Hergueux
Cooperation in a Peer Production Economy-Experimental Evidence from Wikipedia
NBER Conference Paper Posted: 2013
N Al-Najjar , R Casadesus-Masanell
Trust and Discretion in Agency Contracts Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
355
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,038
RANK
192,754
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies