Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enterprise Risk Management and Economies of Scale and Scope: Evidence from the German Insurance Industry

Annals of Operations Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 27 Nov 2018 Last revised: 23 Sep 2019

Muhammed Altuntas

University of Cologne - Department of Risk Management and Insurance

Thomas Berry-Stölzle

University of Iowa - Department of Finance

J David Cummins

Temple University - Risk Management & Insurance & Actuarial Science

Date Written: October 1, 2018

Abstract

Enterprise risk management (ERM) is the approach of managing all risks faced by an enterprise in an integrated, holistic fashion. This research investigates whether the utilization of the ERM approach helps firms achieve economies of scale and scope. We use detailed survey data of German property-liability insurance companies that allows us to construct continuous measures of ERM quality. We find that ERM quality positively moderates the size-scale efficiency relationship, and we find that ERM positively moderates the diversification-revenue scope efficiency relationship, indicating that ERM facilitates economies of scale and economies of scope with respect to revenue complementarities. We do not find any evidence of economies of scope with respect to cost complementarities. Our results suggest that ERM’s impact on economies of scale and scope is one answer to the question how ERM can create value.

Keywords: Enterprise Risk Management, Economies of Scale, Economies of Scope, Firm Efficiency, Insurance Industry

JEL Classification: G22, G32, L25

Suggested Citation:

Altuntas, Muhammed and Berry-Stölzle, Thomas and Cummins, J. David, Enterprise Risk Management and Economies of Scale and Scope: Evidence from the German Insurance Industry (October 1, 2018). Annals of Operations Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3277185 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3277185
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,572
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies