Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate and Mutual-Fund Overlapping Directors and Shareholder Satisfaction

53 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2018 Last revised: 6 May 2021

Rachel Li

Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)

Miriam Schwartz-Ziv

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Department of Finance and Banking; ECGI (European Corporate Governance Institute)

Date Written: February 15, 2020

Abstract

Prior studies have shown that mutual funds benefit from personal connections to companies. Consequently, non-connected funds may be at a disadvantage. We document that both connected funds, which share a director with the company, and non-connected funds, which do not, are particularly satisfied with a director serving simultaneously on at least one corporate and one mutual fund board (“overlapping director”). Funds are more supportive of overlapping directors relative to other corporate directors serving on the same boards, and also during the period a director is an overlapping director, but not before or after that period; these findings support a causal relation. Mutual funds are particularly supportive of overlapping directors when monitoring is needed, a finding that suggests that the overlapping directors’ appeal to mutual funds reflects their ability to monitor. We do not find that all shareholders are supportive of overlapping directors. This result suggests that overlapping directors are particularly able to represent the perspectives and interests of mutual fund shareholders, but not necessarily those of other types of shareholders. Overall, our findings indicate that the monitoring expertise offered by overlapping directors to all fund-shareholders exceed the cost—connected funds are more informed about future returns.

Keywords: overlapping directors, interlocking boards, busy directors, mutual funds, shareholder votes, boards, directors

JEL Classification: G3, L20

Suggested Citation:

Li, Rachel and Schwartz-Ziv, Miriam, Corporate and Mutual-Fund Overlapping Directors and Shareholder Satisfaction (February 15, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3278243 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3278243
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Renée B Adams , E Benjamin , Michael S Hermalin , Weisbach
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Anup Agrawal , Sahiba Chadha
Corporate Governance and Accounting Scandals
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Ali C Akyol , Lauren Cohen
Who Chooses Board Members?
Advances in Financial Economics , volume 16 , p. 43 - 77 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Joshua D Angrist , Jörn-Steffen Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,469
RANK
319,999
1 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies