Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Going-Concern Opinions and Corporate Governance

Ren,N., Zhu, Y. Going-Concern Opinions and Corporate Governance.International Journal of Banking, Accounting and Finance. Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2018

Ning Ren

University of Redlands

Yun Zhu

St. John's University - Department of Economics and Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 29, 2018

Abstract

This paper looks into the issuance of auditor’s going-concern opinions and investigates how it triggers subsequent changes in corporate governance, specifically, the corporate control, executive compensation and management turnover. Using a difference-in-difference approach with the exogenous shock of Auditing Standard No. 5 (AS5) in 2007, we find that going-concern opinion leads to the decrease in blockholder ownership and institutional ownership, the reduction in CEO’s cash compensation and total compensation, and the increase in the turnovers of top executives and auditors, indicating strong monitoring function of the auditors.

Keywords: going-concern opinion, corporate governance, blockholder ownership, institutional ownership, CEO compensation, CEO turnover

JEL Classification: M41, M12

Suggested Citation:

Ren, Ning and Zhu, Yun, Going-Concern Opinions and Corporate Governance (October 29, 2018). Ren,N., Zhu, Y. Going-Concern Opinions and Corporate Governance.International Journal of Banking, Accounting and Finance. Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3279099
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
889
RANK
170,079
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies