Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incorporated in Westminster: Channels and Returns to Political Connection in the United Kingdom

53 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2018 Last revised: 29 Oct 2020

Colin P. Green

Department of Economics

Swarnodeep Homroy

University of Groningen; University of Southampton

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 1, 2018

Abstract

In 2002, an amendment to UK parliamentary regulations removed restrictions on the participation of members of parliament (MPs) in parliamentary proceedings related to their corporate interests. Using this amendment as a quasi-natural experiment, we demonstrate higher equity returns for FTSE 350 firms connected to an MP due to the increase in the value of political access, net of the expertise of the politician. Post-amendment, MPs with corporate connections are more likely to be members of parliamentary select and joint committees and attend more committee meetings. Firms are more likely to appoint MPs and reduce political donations. The benefits of higher political access are greater for firms with family ownership and lower accounting transparency.

Keywords: Political Connections, Board of Directors, Firm Value

JEL Classification: G14, D72, G18, G30

Suggested Citation:

Green, Colin P. and Homroy, Swarnodeep, Incorporated in Westminster: Channels and Returns to Political Connection in the United Kingdom (September 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3279041 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3279041
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,508
RANK
347,387
5 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies