Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Usefulness of Acquired Intangible Asset Fair Values in Predicting Future Payoffs

56 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2018 Last revised: 19 Jun 2023

John M. McInnis

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Brian Monsen

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Date Written: June 19, 2023

Abstract

Proponents of recognizing intangible assets argue intangibles are a key source of value and profitability, while opponents note the considerable inherent measurement uncertainty. Using a broad sample of business combinations from 2003 to 2014, we find that the recorded values of acquired intangibles are a significant predictor of future operating income and cash flows at one-, three-, five-, and seven-year horizons, using both in- and out-of-sample tests. Further, the predictive ability of intangibles dominates that of acquired tangibles, with goodwill being more important, but identifiable intangibles contributing as well. In cross-sectional tests we find the predictive ability of intangibles weakens in settings where the measurement reliability of intangibles is lower. We find customer-related intangibles, and trademarks to a lesser degree, drive the predictive ability of identifiable intangibles. These results are informative to policy makers considering whether hard-to-value intangibles can be measured with sufficient reliability to be useful in predicting payoffs.

Keywords: intangible assets; mergers; acquisitions; goodwill

JEL Classification: M41; G34

Suggested Citation:

McInnis, John M. and Monsen, Brian, The Usefulness of Acquired Intangible Asset Fair Values in Predicting Future Payoffs (June 19, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3279123 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3279123
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
D Aboody , B Lev
The value relevance of intangibles: The case of software capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
APB Opinion No. 17: Intangible Assets Posted: 1970
E Allen , C Larson , & R Sloan
Accrual reversals, earnings and stock returns
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 129 Posted: 2013
A Amel-Zadeh , M Glaum , T Sellhorn
Empirical Goodwill Research: Insights, Issues, and Implications for Standard Setting and Future Research , volume 32 , p. 415 - 446 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
652
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,181
RANK
92,734
3 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies