Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Untenable Case for Keeping Investors in the Dark

Harvard Business Law Review, Vol. 10, pp. 1-48, 2020

Harvard Law School John M. Olin Center Discussion Paper No. 1025

54 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2018 Last revised: 18 May 2020

Lucian A. Bebchuk

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Robert J. Jackson, Jr.

New York University School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

James David Nelson

University of Houston Law Center

Roberto Tallarita

Harvard Law School

Date Written: February 1, 2019

Abstract

This Article seeks to contribute to the heated debate on the disclosure of political spending by public companies. A rulemaking petition urging SEC rules requiring such disclosure has attracted over 1.2 million comments since its submission seven years ago, but the SEC has not yet made a decision on the petition. The petition has sparked a debate among academics, members of the investor and issuer communities, current and former SEC commissioners, and members of Congress. In the course of this debate, opponents of mandatory disclosure have put forward a wide range of objections to such SEC mandates. This Article provides a comprehensive and detailed analysis of these objections, and it shows that they fail to support an opposition to transparency in this area.

Among other things, we examine claims that disclosure of political spending would be counterproductive or at least unnecessary; that any beneficial provision of information would best be provided through voluntary disclosures of companies; and that the adoption of a disclosure rule by the SEC would violate the First Amendment or at least be institutionally inappropriate. We demonstrate that all of these objections do not provide, either individually or collectively, a good basis for opposing a disclosure rule. The case for keeping political spending under the radar of investors, we conclude, is untenable.

Keywords: political spending, SEC, disclosure, transparency

JEL Classification: G3, G34, G38, K2, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bebchuk, Lucian A. and Jackson, Jr., Robert J. and Nelson, James David and Tallarita, Roberto, The Untenable Case for Keeping Investors in the Dark (February 1, 2019). Harvard Business Law Review, Vol. 10, pp. 1-48, 2020, Harvard Law School John M. Olin Center Discussion Paper No. 1025 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3281791 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3281791
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Charles Riley
See also Melanie Sloane, Letter from Melanie Sloan, Executive Director, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington
Oops! Aetna discloses political donations, CNN MONEY Posted: 2012-06-14
See Mark , T Bertolini , T Letter From Mark , Bertolini , Chairman , President , Inc Aetna , Melanie To , Sloan
Executive Director, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington Posted: 2012-06-14
Amended Complaint at 11-12, Silberstein v
WL 1424058 Posted: 2015-03-26
Executive Compensation Disclosure
Fed. Reg , volume 29 Posted: 1992-07-02
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
851
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,883
RANK
65,483
2 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

U.S. Constitutional Law: Rights & Liberties eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies