Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Attention Please: Does Audit Committee Directors’ Unequal Allocation of Attention to Multiple Directorships Affect Firms’ Earnings Management?

Posted: 6 Dec 2018

Henry He Huang

Yeshiva University - Department of Accounting

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Chong Wang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Jian Zhou

University of Hawaii at Manoa

Date Written: November 1, 2015

Abstract

We examine the relationship between audit committee directors’ unequal allocation of attention to multiple directorships and firms’ earnings management. We find that firms with a greater proportion of audit committee directors for whom the directorship is more important than their other directorships have lower abnormal accruals. These firms are also less likely to have securities litigation with GAAP violations, accounting restatements, and internal control weaknesses. Our study documents how audit committee directors’ unequal prioritization of their time and effort to different directorships affects the strength of accounting monitoring and thus highlights the importance of considering how much monitoring attention a firm would receive when hiring an audit committee director.

Keywords: multiple directorships, audit committees, earnings management

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Henry and Lobo, Gerald J. and Wang, Chong and Zhou, Jian, Attention Please: Does Audit Committee Directors’ Unequal Allocation of Attention to Multiple Directorships Affect Firms’ Earnings Management? (November 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3281826
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,296
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies