Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Debt Holder Governance

Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, forthcoming

European Corporate Governance Institute - Finance Working Paper No. 613/2019

54 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2018 Last revised: 5 May 2020

Aneel Keswani

City University London - Bayes Business School

Anh L. Tran

Bayes Business School (formerly Cass Business School), City University of London

Paolo F. Volpin

Drexel University - Bennett S. LeBow College of Business; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); City University London - Faculty of Finance

Date Written: April 20, 2020

Abstract

Using data on the universe of US-based mutual funds, we find that two out of five fund families hold corporate bonds of firms in which they also own an equity stake. We show that the greater the fraction of debt a fund family holds in a given firm, the greater its propensity to vote in line with the interests of firm debt holders at shareholder meetings, even when against ISS recommendation. Voting has direct policy consequences as firms that receive more votes in favor of creditors make corporate decisions more in line with the interests of debt holders.

Keywords: corporate governance, institutional investors, agency costs of debt

JEL Classification: G23, G34

Suggested Citation:

Keswani, Aneel and Tran, Anh L. and Volpin, Paolo F., Institutional Debt Holder Governance (April 20, 2020). Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, forthcoming, European Corporate Governance Institute - Finance Working Paper No. 613/2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3282394 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3282394
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
374
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,188
RANK
181,854
10 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies