Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Index Funds and the Future of Corporate Governance: Theory, Evidence, and Policy

Columbia Law Review, Vol. 119, December 2019, pp. 2029-2146

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 433/2018

Harvard Law School John M. Olin Center Discussion Paper No. 986

125 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2018 Last revised: 31 Jul 2020

Lucian A. Bebchuk

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Scott Hirst

Boston University - School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 31, 2019

Abstract

Index funds own an increasingly large proportion of American public companies. The stewardship decisions of index fund managers—how they monitor, vote, and engage with their portfolio companies—can be expected to have a profound impact on the governance and performance of public companies and the economy. Understanding index fund stewardship, and how policymaking can improve it, is thus critical for corporate law scholarship. In this Article we contribute to such understanding by providing a comprehensive theoretical, empirical, and policy analysis of index fund stewardship.

We begin by putting forward an agency-costs theory of index fund incentives. Stewardship decisions by index funds depend not just on the interests of index fund investors but also on the incentives of index fund managers. Our agency-costs analysis shows that index fund managers have strong incentives to (i) underinvest in stewardship and (ii) defer excessively to the preferences and positions of corporate managers.

We then provide an empirical analysis of the full range of stewardship activities that index funds do and do not undertake, focusing on the three largest index fund managers, which we collectively refer to as the “Big Three.” We analyze four dimensions of the Big Three’s stewardship activities: the limited personnel time they devote to stewardship regarding most of their portfolio companies; the small minority of portfolio companies with which they have any private communications; their focus on divergences from governance principles and their limited attention to other issues that could be significant for their investors; and their pro-management voting patterns.

We also empirically investigate five ways in which the Big Three could fail to undertake adequate stewardship: the limited attention they pay to financial underperformance; their lack of involvement in the selection of directors and lack of attention to important director characteristics; their failure to take actions that would bring about governance changes that are desirable according to their own governance principles; their decision to stay on the sidelines regarding corporate governance reforms; and their avoidance of involvement in consequential securities litigation. We show that this body of evidence is, on the whole, consistent with the incentive problems that our agency-costs framework identifies.

Finally, we put forward a set of reforms that policymakers should consider in order to address the incentives of index fund managers to underinvest in stewardship, their incentives to be excessively deferential to corporate managers, and the continuing rise of index investing. We also discuss how our analysis should reorient important ongoing debates regarding common ownership and hedge fund activism.

The policy measures we put forward, and the beneficial role of hedge fund activism, can partly but not fully address the incentive problems that we analyze and document. These problems are expected to remain a significant aspect of the corporate governance landscape and should be the subject of close attention by policymakers, market participants, and scholars.

This paper is part of a larger project on the incentives of investment managers that also includes The Agency Problems of Institutional Investors (with Alma Cohen) and The Specter of the Giant Three.

Presentation slides for this paper are available on SSRN here.

Keywords: Index funds, passive investing, institutional investors, corporate governance, stewardship, engagement, monitoring, agency problems, shareholder activism, hedge fund activism

JEL Classification: G23, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bebchuk, Lucian A. and Hirst, Scott, Index Funds and the Future of Corporate Governance: Theory, Evidence, and Policy (May 31, 2019). Columbia Law Review, Vol. 119, December 2019, pp. 2029-2146, European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 433/2018, Harvard Law School John M. Olin Center Discussion Paper No. 986, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3282794 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3282794
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
CalPERS held U.S. equities with an aggregate market value of $84.7 billion, and CalSTRS held U.S. equities with an aggregate market value of $65.0 billion. See Cal , volume 206 Posted: 2018-06-30
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report , volume 117 Posted: 2018
Crossref
For an influential article written during the debate leading to the passage of the PSLRA that advocated having institutional investors serve as lead plaintiffs
John S Weiss , Beckerman
Let the Money Do the Monitoring: How Institutional Investors Can Reduce Agency Costs in Securities Class Actions, 104 Yale L.J. 2053, 2121 236. For recent policy discussions about pooling of resources by institutional investors, see Luca Enriques & Alessandro Romano, Institutional Investor Voting Behavior: A Network Theory Perspective
U. Ill. L. Rev , volume 223 , p. 254 - 57 Posted: 2019
Load more
13 Citations
Dirk Schoenmaker , Willem Schramade
Investing for Long-Term Value Creation
Journal of Sustainable Finance & Investment, 9(4), 356-377. · 24 Pages · Posted: 19 Sep 2018 · Last revised: 9 Sep 2019 · Downloads: 578
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alon Brav , Matthew D. Cain , Jonathon Zytnick
Retail Shareholder Participation in the Proxy Process: Monitoring, Engagement, and Voting
European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 637/2019, · 78 Pages · Posted: 14 Jun 2019 · Last revised: 7 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 1,647
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lenore Palladino
The potential benefits of employee equity funds in the United States
Journal of Participation and Employee Ownership , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 56 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Lenore Palladino
The Potential Benefits of Employee Equity Funds in the United States
Journal of Participation and Employee Ownership. Vol. forthcoming · 30 Pages · Posted: 17 Sep 2020 · Last revised: 20 Jul 2021 · Downloads: 228
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
32,517
RANK
2,887
13 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies