Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Advocacy of Minority Shareholders on Shares Rights Issue of Malawian Capital Market

14 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2019

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: December 27, 2018

Abstract

Share rights issue is one of the viable means by which public limited companies can raise additional cash at relatively low cost to steer growth or sustainably manage their debts. Minority shareholders can effectively increase equity stake in the situations where they can lobby majority shareholders to abstain in any rights issue to enable minority shareholders exercise preemption rights and thus increase shareholding. This might of course be easy where government is the major shareholder.

While minority shareholders might be vying for more equity through rights issue, the process itself might not bring long-term benefits as this depends on the purpose for the rights issue which is key for future long term prospects and the ratio of rights issue to existing shares affect the ability of the market to raise enough funds which might force underwriters to have more remnant shares.

The results of this study have shown that Malawi’s capital market has experienced only four rights issue between 1996 and 2017 of which two were executed by one firm. The purposes for rights issue did not appear to improve long-term growth aspect but the overall assumption is that rights issue had a positive impact on Z-Score Model which can improve image and going concern of public limited companies.


Keywords: share, rights, issue, Malawi, minority, shareholder

JEL Classification: G12, G21, G28, L33

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Advocacy of Minority Shareholders on Shares Rights Issue of Malawian Capital Market (December 27, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3284932 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3284932
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,371
RANK
702,914
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies