Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Roles of Boards of Directors: Oversight and Overlap

18 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2018

Kevin Old

Independent

Karen Van-Peursem

Victoria University of Wellington

Stuart Locke

University of Waikato - Management School

Date Written: 2006

Abstract

The range of themes and rationales for the understanding of the roles of boards of directors (BoDs), as discussed in the corporate governance literature, is investigated in this paper. A comprehensive survey of the literature indicates that the roles of BoDs are not well articulated, specified or even well known. Much of the literature is prescriptive. Three main roles are identified; strategy, control and service. These roles often overlap and are in some cases contradictory. This may be due to a lack of empirical research, contextual understanding and conflicting theoretical perspectives. The literature highlights the need for further empirical research, drawn from real world experiences, to understand which parts of this literature sheds light on the actual roles of BoDs.

Keywords: corporate governance; board roles; literature review

Suggested Citation:

Old, Kevin and Van-Peursem, Karen and Locke, Stuart, Roles of Boards of Directors: Oversight and Overlap (2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3284838 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3284838
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
B Baysinger , R E Hoskinsson
Academy of Management Review , volume 15 , p. 72 - 87 Posted: 1990
R A Burgelman
Management Science , volume 29 , p. 1349 - 1364 Posted: 1983
Crossref
M A Carpenter , J D Westphal
Academy of Management Journal , volume 4 , p. 639 - 660 Posted: 2001
Crossref
T Clarke
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 12 , p. 153 - 161 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,120
RANK
232,476
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies