Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Communications in Proxy Contests

61 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2018 Last revised: 4 Jun 2021

Yazhou He

The University of Manchester

Date Written: June 4, 2021

Abstract

This paper studies the communication of “voice” in shareholder activism. Using hand-collected data, I investigate how the use of investor presentations, among other communication strategies, affects the outcomes of proxy contests. Being the first to make presentations to investors increases the dissident’s chance of winning by 60 percent. To understand this first-mover advantage, I examine the allocation of investor attention and variation in investor sophistication. The evidence is consistent with an explanation of limited investor attention. The findings highlight the role of communication in corporate governance.

Keywords: Proxy Contest, Attention, Investor Presentation

JEL Classification: G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

He, Yazhou, Communications in Proxy Contests (June 4, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3284782 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3284782
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,458
RANK
299,785
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies