Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Monitoring, Motivated Investors, and Firm Performance

Journal of Real Estate Research, Vol. 39, No. 3, 2017

40 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2018

William G. Hardin

Florida International University (FIU) - College of Business Administration

Gregory Leo Nagel

Middle Tennessee State University

Kenneth Roskelley

Mississippi State University - Department of Finance & Economics

Philip Seagraves

Middle Tennessee State University

Date Written: November 16, 2018

Abstract

We examine the impact of institutional investors on REIT performance. The mere presence of institutional investors does not positively affect firm operations and value. However, the presence of motivated institutional investors does. The results show that firms with shares held by motivated institutional investors have higher future values, improved future funds from operations, retention of these funds, better cash management, reduced regression to the mean following superior performance, and fewer agency problems. The results also suggest that existing measures of institutional monitoring used in the literature may not fully capture effects related to institutional investment.

Keywords: Agency, Monitoring, Institutional Investor, Motivated, Returns, REIT

Suggested Citation:

Hardin, William G. and Nagel, Gregory Leo and Roskelley, Kenneth and Seagraves, Philip, Institutional Monitoring, Motivated Investors, and Firm Performance (November 16, 2018). Journal of Real Estate Research, Vol. 39, No. 3, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3285939
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Mean reversion may have several causes: competition, luck, or agency costs associated with increased cash flow
Adjusted FFO is also used. For example, Downs and Guner (2006) indicate that analysts primarily measure REIT performance by FFO. We also allow that there is informational content related to FFO and additional measures including earnings. Since we are most concerned with economic or financial performance
REITs are required to pay out 90% of taxable income in dividends, but much research shows this is not a binding constraint and that REITs have discretion in setting dividend policy even as they are by their nature capital constrained in expanding their asset base
See Hardin , Hill Highfield , Kelly
for an assessment of REIT cash holdings Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,165
RANK
759,678
2 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies