Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Decision Usefulness of Corporate Environmental Reporting and Firm Performance: Evidence from Sri Lanka

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVII, No. 3, July 2018, pp. 7-23

Posted: 9 Dec 2018

D M M B Dissanayake

Uzabase Inc.

E M A S B Ekanayake

University of Peradeniya

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

The study attempts to assess the degree to which Corporate Environmental Reporting (CER) contributes to firm performance in Sri Lanka. Four qualitative characteristics of financial information as stated in the Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting (i.e., relevance, faithful representation, understandability and comparability) and three performance indicators (i.e., ROA, ROE and EPS) have been used to measure the decision usefulness of CER information and firm performance, respectively while three variables, namely, growth, firm size and leverage, were controlled in the study. For this purpose, top 30 companies based on the market capitalization in the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) of Sri Lanka were selected as the sample. Data were gathered from the annual reports of these companies during the period from 2013 to 2016, and data analysis was carried out using content analysis, descriptive statistics, Pearson correlation coefficient and multiple regression analysis. The findings show that scores for the two fundamental characteristics (i.e., relevance and faithful representation) were relatively lower than those of the enhancing qualitative characteristics (i.e., comparability and understandability), indicating a lower level of decision usefulness. With regard to the association between CER reporting and firm performance, it was evident that there is a positive association between the two variables. The findings of the study have significant policy implications such as the importance of provision of environmental information for decision making purposes rather than merely satisfying the stakeholders of companies.

Suggested Citation:

Dissanayake, D M M B and Ekanayake, E M A S B, Decision Usefulness of Corporate Environmental Reporting and Firm Performance: Evidence from Sri Lanka (2018). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVII, No. 3, July 2018, pp. 7-23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3285630
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
796
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies