Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Crucial Role of Time in M&A Activities: An Inductive Exploration

Zadrazil, N., Lehner, O.M. and Losbichler, H., August 2017, The Crucial Role of Time in M&A Activities: An Inductive Exploration, Journal of Modern Accounting and Auditing, (ISSN: 1548-6583), (13)8, 350-370

21 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2018

Nicole Zadrazil

University of Applied Sciences Upper Austria, Students

Othmar Manfred Lehner

Hanken School of Economics - Department of Accounting

Heimo Losbichler

Upper Austria - University of Applied Sciences Upper Austria

Date Written: October 20, 2017

Abstract

Mergers & acquisitions (M&As) are important strategic instruments, yet nearly half of all transactions fail, often resulting in disastrous write-offs and losses for corporations and financing institutions alike - despite promising prospects upfront. Applied research has been trying to find a “panacea” to prevent or at least predict M&A failure, investigating motives, synergies and performance. Despite the growing unease with the stationary explanatory models in literature, research has only marginally focused on the concept of time, with inquiries into market timing and integration speed. Yet other timing concepts have been neglected in concepts so far despite early empirical evidence for their existence. The purpose of this paper is thus to identify and elaborate on the importance of further relevant theories of timing. For this, and true to the exploratory nature of the topic, the authors have chosen a qualitative comparative case study design based on existing case reports which are investigated for narrations highlighting timing concepts. This study reveals six factors which have a crucial impact on the M&A outcome: time of acquisition, M&A duration in its entirety, M&A sequence, synergy chronology, frequency of acquisitions and time to step back. It contributes to theory and practice in outlining the careful attention that needs to be paid in planning in these factors to enhance the chances of a successful M&A transaction.

Keywords: M&A, success, timing concepts, process, synergy

JEL Classification: M13, M15

Suggested Citation:

Zadrazil, Nicole and Lehner, Othmar Manfred and Losbichler, Heimo, The Crucial Role of Time in M&A Activities: An Inductive Exploration (October 20, 2017). Zadrazil, N., Lehner, O.M. and Losbichler, H., August 2017, The Crucial Role of Time in M&A Activities: An Inductive Exploration, Journal of Modern Accounting and Auditing, (ISSN: 1548-6583), (13)8, 350-370, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3286569
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
C Adams , A Neely
The performance prism to boost M&A success
Measuring Business Excellence , volume 4 , issue 3 , p. 19 - 23 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M F Ahammad , K W Glaister
The pre-acquisition evaluation of target firms and cross border acquisition performance
International Business Review , volume 22 , issue 5 , p. 894 - 904 Posted: 2013
Crossref
K R Ahern , F J Weston
M&As: The good, the bad, and the ugly
Journal of Applied Finance , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 20 Posted: 2007
D Angwin
Speed in M&A integration: The first 100 days
European Management Journal , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 418 - 430 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,925
RANK
223,562
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies