Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
European Commission - New Regulations Concerning Environmental and Social Impact Reporting

Pichler, K. and Lehner, O.M., May 2017, European Commission - New Regulations Concerning Environmental and Social Impact Reporting, ACRN Oxford Journal of Finance and Risk Perspectives (ISSN: 2305-7394), (6)1, 1-54

54 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2018

Katharina Pichler

Upper Austria - University of Applied Sciences Upper Austria

Othmar Manfred Lehner

Hanken School of Economics - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 26, 2017

Abstract

The European Commission has released a new directive concerning sustainability reporting that must be implemented in thousands of companies by 2017. Many companies already report on sustainability. Thus, the question emerges whether companies already fulfil the requirements for reasons of legitimacy, signalling and authenticity, regardless of the new directive. A multiple comparative case study of exemplary companies with triangulation through qualitative expert interviews has been conducted. Business reports, newspapers and interviews have been coded deductively and inductively. The exemplary companies already fulfil the majority of the new requirements. The result of the coding is a framework of five categories, namely, motives, legitimacy, integration, signalling and authenticity. It has been identified that motives have changed and sustainability reporting has developed into an instrument for legitimacy. The implementation has become more standardised and distinct signals have gained in significance to attain authenticity.

JEL Classification: M13, M15

Suggested Citation:

Pichler, Katharina and Lehner, Othmar Manfred, European Commission - New Regulations Concerning Environmental and Social Impact Reporting (October 26, 2017). Pichler, K. and Lehner, O.M., May 2017, European Commission - New Regulations Concerning Environmental and Social Impact Reporting, ACRN Oxford Journal of Finance and Risk Perspectives (ISSN: 2305-7394), (6)1, 1-54, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3286533
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
C Beck , J Dumay , G Frost
In Pursuit of a 'Single Source of Truth': from Threatened Legitimacy to Integrated Reporting
Journal of Business Ethics Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Behnam , T L Maclean
Where Is the Accountability in International Accountability Standards?: A Decoupling Perspective
Business Ethics Quarterly , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 72 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Bénabou , J Tirole
Individual and Corporate Social Responsibility
Economica , volume 77 , issue 305 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Bryman
Social Research Methods Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,994
RANK
453,964
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies