Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Structure with Asset Flexibility

58 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2018

Peter H. Ritchken

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Banking & Finance

Qi Wu

Case Western Reserve University, Weatherhead School of Management

Date Written: November 16, 2018

Abstract

The ability of equityholders/managers to partially control the earnings stream by temporarily shutting down to avoid negative earnings has an enormous effect on the choice of capital structure. Increasing switching costs reduces operating flexibility, and reduced operating flexibility implies less use of debt, but only up to a point beyond which the firm commits to significantly more debt.

Keywords: Dynamic Capital Structure, Asset Flexibility, Profitability, Growth Options, Switching Costs

JEL Classification: G32

Suggested Citation:

Ritchken, Peter H. and Wu, Qi, Capital Structure with Asset Flexibility (November 16, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3286049 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3286049
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
D P Bertsekas
Dynamic Programming and Optimal Control, Vols. I and II Posted: 1995
M Billett , T King , D Mauer
Growth opportunities and the choice of leverage, debt maturity, and covenants
Journal of Finance , volume 6 , p. 697 - 730 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Brennan , E Schwartz
Evaluating natural resource investment
Journal of Business , volume 58 , p. 135 - 157 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Arturo Bris , S. Abraham Ravid , Ronald Sverdlove
Conflicts in Bankruptcy and the Sequence of Debt Issues
EFA 2009 Bergen Meetings Paper Pages: 51 Posted: 12 Feb 2009 Last revised: 22 Apr 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,469
RANK
576,053
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies