Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discussion of 'Managing Reputation: Evidence from Biographies of Corporate Directors'

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

18 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2018

Darius P. Miller

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Finance Department

Date Written: June 19, 2018

Abstract

Gow, Wahid and Yu (2018) (henceforth GWY) examine how directors’ reputation concerns influence the proxy statement disclosure of their business experience. They find that reputation concerns combine with lax disclosure requirements to cause directors’ employment at troubled firms to be omitted from proxy filings. Further, the evidence suggests that these misrepresentations succeed in misleading both the labor and capital markets. In this discussion, I review the literature to highlight the importance of GWY’s contribution. I also discuss the study’s implications, identify some of its limitations as well as highlight several unanswered questions that provide opportunities for future research.

Keywords: director reputation

Suggested Citation:

Miller, Darius P., Discussion of 'Managing Reputation: Evidence from Biographies of Corporate Directors' (June 19, 2018). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3287386
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
J A Brickley , J L Coles , J Linck
What happens to CEOs after they retire? New evidence on career concerns, horizon problems, and CEO incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 52 , p. 341 - 377 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J Coles , C Hoi
New evidence on the market for directors: board membership and Pennsylvania Senate Bill 1310
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 197 - 230 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Dahya , Or Dimitrov , J Mcconnell
Dominant Shareholders, Corporate Boards and Corporate Value: A Cross-Country Analysis
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 87 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M Defond , M Hung
Investor protection and corporate governance: Evidence from worldwide CEO turnover
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , p. 269 - 312 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,000
RANK
724,439
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies