Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compensation Clawback Policies and Corporate Lawsuits

Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance, Forthcoming

29 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2018

Matteo P. Arena

Marquette University - Department of Finance

Nga Nguyen

Marquette University

Date Written: June 20, 2018

Abstract

Since the 2008 financial crisis, executive compensation has been the subject of increased regulation, including the mandatory adoption of compensation clawback policies by the Dodd Frank Act. By allowing firms to recoup compensation from managers who breach their fiduciary duty, clawbacks provide a form of discipline that potentially reduces the likelihood of managerial wrongdoing which, in turn, lowers the risk of corporate lawsuits. We examine the association between clawback provisions and corporate litigation and find that firms with higher litigation risk are more likely to adopt a clawback policy. In addition, after the adoption of clawback provisions, litigation risk significantly declines suggesting that clawback policies are effective in reducing the likelihood of corporate lawsuits. Furthermore, firms with clawback policies are more likely to have lawsuits against them dismissed or settled for lower amounts.

Keywords: Risk Management, Litigation Risk, Corporate Lawsuits, Clawback, Executive Compensation

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G38, K20, K22

Suggested Citation:

Arena, Matteo P. and Nguyen, Nga, Compensation Clawback Policies and Corporate Lawsuits (June 20, 2018). Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3287945
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Noel D. Addy , Xiaoyan Chu , Timothy R. Yoder
Recovering Bonuses After Restated Financials: Adopting Clawback Provisions
Pages: 49 Posted: 29 Aug 2009 Last revised: 19 May 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
N Addy , X Chu , T Yoder
Voluntary adoption of clawback provisions, corporate governance, and interlock effects
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 189 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M M Alfraih
The effectiveness of board of directors' characteristics in mandatory disclosure compliance
Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 154 - 176 Posted: 2016
Crossref
M P Arena , S P Ferris
A Survey of Litigation in Corporate Finance
Managerial Finance , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 4 - 18 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,240
RANK
614,231
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies