Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Media Attention and Selective Managerial Bad News Hoarding

54 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2018

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Agnes Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; University of Oklahama

Shuo Li

Western Washington University - Department of Accounting; Western Washington University

Jingran Zhao

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: November 21, 2018

Abstract

This paper investigates whether media attention impacts the extent to which managers hoard bad news in general and whether the effect applies to conspicuous news, such as earnings news. We find that greater media attention escalates managerial bad news hoarding; however, such an effect does not apply to bad earnings news. These findings imply that managers selectively hoard bad news that is not as regulated and as conspicuous as earnings news. In the cross-sectional analyses, we find that typical corporate governance mechanisms are not effective in mitigating bad news hoarding; rather, we find that the effect of media attention on bad news hoarding is amplified when management is more short-term oriented.

Keywords: Media attention, Crash risk, Selective bad news hoarding

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G32

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yangyang and Cheng, Agnes and Li, Shuo and Li, Shuo and Zhao, Jingran, Media Attention and Selective Managerial Bad News Hoarding (November 21, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3288414 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3288414
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
455
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,787
RANK
145,263
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies