Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Lead Independent Directors and Corporate Tax Policy

Journal of Business Finance &Accounting, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2018 Last revised: 11 May 2025

Bo Gao

University of Texas at El Paso

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: November 26, 2018

Abstract

Companies voluntarily adopt lead independent directors (LIDs) for the benefits they could bring to the board, such as further improving board independence, mitigating unresolved agency issues, enhancing board monitoring, and countering criticisms of corporate governance. We find that companies with LIDs have more conservative tax policies. The influence of LIDs on corporate tax policies is greater when the level of tax avoidance is more aggressive compared to their size and industry peers. We also find that investors favorably value the more conservative tax policies of companies with LIDs. Companies with LIDs have lower tax risk, pursue more conservative tax planning, such as lower UTB settlements, and are less likely to use tax shelters. These companies do not have aggressive valuation allowance releases and have fewer permanent book-tax differences. Lastly, we also find an associated non-tax benefit; CEOs in companies with LIDs do not have a higher likelihood of subsequent forced turnover for not engaging in tax avoidance. Thus, the investors’ higher valuation of more conservative corporate tax policies reduces the likelihood of subsequent forced CEO turnover.

Keywords: lead independent director, corporate governance, tax policy, investor valuation, non-tax benefits, tax risk, voluntary board position

JEL Classification: G30, H25, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Bo and Omer, Thomas C.,

Lead Independent Directors and Corporate Tax Policy

(November 26, 2018). Journal of Business Finance &Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3290897 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3290897
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,416
RANK
747,544
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies