Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Share-Option Based Compensation Expense, Shareholder Returns and Financial Crisis

Alhaj-Ismail, A., Adwan, S., & Stittle, J. (2018). Share-Option Based Compensation Expense, Shareholder Returns and Financial Crisis. Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics. DOI:/10.1016/j.jcae.2018.11.001, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2018

Alaa Alhaj Ismail

Coventry University

Sami Adwan

University of Sussex

John R. Stittle

University of Essex - Department of Accounting, Finance & Management

Date Written: September 1, 2018

Abstract

This paper contributes to the literature that analyses the relationship between Share-Option Based Compensation (SOBC) expense and shareholder returns. It utilises a sample of financial firms listed in the European Economic Area and Switzerland between 2005 and 2016 to make inferences about the impact of the financial crisis on the above-mentioned relationship. The paper also assesses the extent to which the relationship between SOBC expense and shareholder returns during the financial crisis varies with ownership concentration. We find evidence that the positive relationship between SOBC expense and shareholder returns is significantly more apparent during the financial crisis. This suggests that investors place more emphasis on the unrecognised intangible features of SOBC contracts during the crisis, even though their associated expenses are subject to managerial discretion and measurement errors. We also find that the positive relationship between SOBC expense and shareholder returns over the financial crisis is more pronounced when ownership is more concentrated. The results of our study are robust after controlling for firm size, potential investment growth opportunities, traditional banking activities and firm self-selection bias.

Keywords: IFRS 2, share-based payment, share based compensation, financial institution, financial crisis, and large shareholders

JEL Classification: M41, J33, G01, G32

Suggested Citation:

Alhaj Ismail, Alaa and Adwan, Sami and Stittle, John R., Share-Option Based Compensation Expense, Shareholder Returns and Financial Crisis (September 1, 2018). Alhaj-Ismail, A., Adwan, S., & Stittle, J. (2018). Share-Option Based Compensation Expense, Shareholder Returns and Financial Crisis. Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics. DOI:/10.1016/j.jcae.2018.11.001, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3290918
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,314
RANK
653,768
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies