Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Audit Committee Power and Financial Reporting Outcomes: Evidence from Lead Independent Directors on the Audit Committee

AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2018 Last revised: 12 Feb 2025

Bo Gao

University of Texas at El Paso

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Marjorie K. Shelley

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: February 1, 2019

Abstract

Despite SOX enhancing the requirements of audit committee (AC) members, AC members are perceived to be inactively involved or lacking timely information about accounting issues. However, when lead independent directors (LIDs) serve on ACs, they bring the ability to ensure timely sharing of and improved awareness of accounting issues among the AC members, the external auditor, and managers, strengthening AC effectiveness. When considering the broad cross-section of companies with LIDs on the AC, we find that  they produce more reliable and timely financial information, especially companies with large ACs or whose CEO tenure is short. However, examining subsamples of companies with/without CEO duality, the effect differs for individual companies, suggesting weaker results when there is CEO duality and benefits of having LIDs on other committees. A path analysis suggests that LIDs on the AC lead to a lower likelihood of CEO-forced turnover because of their favorable influence on financial reporting. 

Keywords: lead independent director, audit committee, financial reporting outcomes

JEL Classification: G30, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Bo and Omer, Thomas C. and Shelley, Marjorie,

Audit Committee Power and Financial Reporting Outcomes: Evidence from Lead Independent Directors on the Audit Committee

(February 1, 2019). AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3290898 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3290898
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor task-specific expertise: The case of fair value accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
H Aldamen , K Duncan , S Kelly , R Mcnamara , S Nagel
Audit committee characteristics and firm performance during the global financial crisis
Accounting & Finance , volume 52 , issue 4 , p. 971 - 1000 Posted: 2012
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
E M Bamber , L S Bamber , M P Schoderbek
Audit structure and other determinants of audit report lag: An empirical analysis , volume 12 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,431
RANK
337,747
4 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies