Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
I.P.O. Determinants of Delisting: Lessons From the Athens Stock Exchange

42 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2018

Michalis Makrominas

Frederick University

Yannis K Yannoulis

School of Economics and Business-Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 27, 2018

Abstract

Stock delisting is a commonly value destructive process imposing significant costs on investors, firms and public markets. A relatively recent surge in the number of delistings across international markets restates the question on the roots and causes of delisting. Using a hand-picked sample from the Athens Stock Exchange we investigate early warning signs of delisting manifested prior or on the day of the Initial Public Offering. Controlling for other factors, through a propensity score methodology, we find that the probability of delisting is positively associated with relative size issuance and earnings’ manipulation, and negatively associated with hot-issuance periods and the joint effect of audit quality and amount of information divulged through I.P.O. prospectus. In distinguishing between alternative cases of delisting, we find that the effects of audit quality, relative size offer and earnings’ manipulation are further accentuated for voluntary delisted firms. Our results are useful to regulators aiming at reversing the ongoing “listing gap”, not least, in the grossly under-researched Greek market.

Keywords: Accounting, Auditing, Corporate Governance, Delisting, Athens Stock Exchange

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G32

Suggested Citation:

Makrominas, Michalis and Yannoulis, Yannis K, I.P.O. Determinants of Delisting: Lessons From the Athens Stock Exchange (November 27, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3291277 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3291277
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
M Abdullah , L Evans , I Fraser , I Tsalavoutas
IFRS Mandatory disclosures in Malaysia: the influence of family control and the value (ir) relevance of compliance levels
Accounting Forum , volume 39 , p. 328 - 348 Posted: 2015-12
Crossref
Ann-Kristin Achleitner , André Betzer , Marc Goergen , Bastian Hinterramskogler
Private Equity Acquisitions of Continental European Firms - The Impact of Ownership and Control on the Likelihood of Being Taken Private
European Financial Management, Forthcoming, Best Paper Prize, 7th International Conference on Corporate Governance, Birmingham Business School Pages: 53 Posted: 27 Dec 2008 Last revised: 5 Aug 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
E-A Algebaly , M Ibrahim , Y Ahmad-Zaluki , N , A
The determinants of involuntary delisting rate in the Egyptian stock market
Review of Accounting and Finance , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 171 - 90 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Illiquidity and stock returns cross-section and time series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,654
RANK
401,016
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies