Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Ownership Structure on Intellectual Capital Efficiency: Evidence from Borsa Istanbul

7th International Conference on Business Administration (ICBA), May 3-5, 2018

6 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2019

Sedeaq Nassar

Islamic University of Gaza - Department of Business Administration

Mahmoud Ashour

Marmara University, Faculty of Business Administration, Department of Accounting-Finance

Ömer Faruk Tan

Marmara University - Department of Accounting-Finance

Sezer Külah

Marmara University - Department of Accounting-Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 4, 2018

Abstract

This study examined the effect of ownership structure on intellectual capital efficiency of listed firms on Borsa Istanbul. Data covering the 2005-2015 period is gathered from the FINNET database and companies’ financial statements to compute VAIC, and from the ISO500 website to obtain the ownership structures of the companies. The ownership structure is divided into five different categories; government, family, institutional, individual, and foreign, while the efficiency of intellectual capital is measured using Public’s model Value Added Intellectual Coefficient (VAIC). This measure is composed of three main components, Human Capital Efficiency (HCE), Structural Capital Efficiency (SCE), and Capital Employed Efficiency (CEE). In general, we find that family and foreign ownership structures have a significant negative impact on intellectual capital efficiency, while government, institutional, and individual ownership structures have a negative impact on intellectual capital efficiency. It seems that in this setting, all ownership structures have a negative impact on intellectual capital.

Keywords: Intellectual Capital, Value Added Intellectual Coefficient, Ownership Structure, Borsa Istanbul

JEL Classification: F65, G32, L60

Suggested Citation:

Nassar, Sedeaq and Ashour, Mahmoud and Tan, Ömer Faruk and Külah, Sezer, The Effect of Ownership Structure on Intellectual Capital Efficiency: Evidence from Borsa Istanbul (May 4, 2018). 7th International Conference on Business Administration (ICBA), May 3-5, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3291397 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3291397
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Leonardo Cruz Basso , Herbert Kimura , João Francisco Aguiar
Intellectual Capital and Value Creation in the Production and Assembly of Vehicles and Auto-Parts Sector in Brazil
Pages: 12 Posted: 14 Nov 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
N Bontis
Intellectual capital: An exploratory study that develops measures and models
Management Decision , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 63 - 76 Posted: 1998
Crossref
M Cheng , J Lin , T Hsiao , T Lin
Invested resource, competitive ıntellectual capital, and corporate performance
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 33 - 50 Posted: 2010
Crossref
E Goldeng , L Grünfeld , G Benito
The performance differential between private and state owned enterprises: The roles of ownership, management and market structure
Türkiye'nin 500 büyük sanayi kuruluşu , volume 45 , p. 1244 - 73 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,292
RANK
250,789
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies