Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Independence and a Contracting Perspective on Goodwill Impairment: Singaporean Evidence

Business: Theory and Practice, 2017, 18: 128–135

8 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2018

Jamaliah Abdul Majid

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: June 2017

Abstract

Purpose
This study examines factors influencing and constraining the decision to recognize zero goodwill impairment by listed firms in Singapore.

Research approach
The Singaporean firms selected are those that encountered book-to-market ratios above one for three consecutive years from 2010-2012. With the book-to-market ratios persistently above one for three continuous years, these firms have indications that goodwill may be impaired, yet they reported zero goodwill impairment. The regression analysis is performed using binary logistic regression with the dependent variable sets to one for firms that are regarded as choosing to recognize zero goodwill impairment, and zero otherwise.

Findings
Based on 52 Singaporean listed firms with market indications that the goodwill may be impaired, the regression results reveal that the decision to recognize zero goodwill impairment by Singaporean listed firms is driven by the desire to avoid debt covenant violation, supporting the debt hypothesis. However, a high proportion of independent directors on the audit committee is more likely to constrain this recognition choice.

Theoretical implications
The findings of this study contribute to the literature on IFRS by providing evidence to support the applicability of the debt hypothesis, which was developed in an advanced market with firms that have dispersed ownership, in explaining the decision to recognize zero goodwill impairment by Singaporean listed firms with concentrated ownership. The results of this study also contribute to the corporate governance literature by supporting the results of prior studies that found effective governance mechanisms acts as a constraint to managerial opportunism related to reporting goodwill impairment.


Practical/policy implications
This study provides important implications for managers, policy makers and relevant authorities. To enhance the quality of the financial statements, especially for Singaporean listed companies, the relevant authorities need to closely monitor firms’ reporting incentives and further strengthen corporate governance mechanisms.

Keywords: Goodwill Impairment, Contracting Perspective, Audit Committee Independence, Managerial Discretion, IFRS, Recognition Choice

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Abdul Majid, Jamaliah, Audit Committee Independence and a Contracting Perspective on Goodwill Impairment: Singaporean Evidence (June 2017). Business: Theory and Practice, 2017, 18: 128–135 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3292729
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Abdul Majid , J
Accounting choices relating to goodwill impairment: evidence from Malaysia Posted: 2013
Abdul Majid , J
Reporting incentives, ownership concen­ tration by the largest outside shareholder, and reported go­ odwill impairment losses
Journal of Contemporary Accoun­ ting & Economics , volume 11 , p. 199 - 214 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Abdul Majid , J
Disclosure practices of an accounting for go­ odwill impairment by Malaysian listed companies: a ten year perspective Posted: 2017
N M Abughazaleh , O M Al­hares , C Roberts
Accounting discretion in goodwill impairments: UK evidence
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 165 - 204 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
825
RANK
906,046
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies