Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Informed Trading and Dark Pools

53 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2018 Last revised: 2 Feb 2020

Mao Ye

Cornell University; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Wei Zhu

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: February 1, 2020

Abstract

We analyze how a large informed trader chooses between a lit exchange and a dark pool. We show that (1) the market share of the dark pool increases when the informed trader trades; (2) the market share of the dark pool increases more when the value of information is higher; and (3) price discovery decreases with the value of information. We find empirical support for these predictions using trades from activists reported in Schedule 13D filings. A one-standard-deviation increase in the value of an activist’s information increases the dark pool’s market share by 5.8% and reduces price discovery by 9.7%.

Keywords: Dark pool, rational expectations equilibrium, price discovery, shareholder activism, Schedule 13D filings

JEL Classification: G12, G34

Suggested Citation:

Ye, Mao and Zhu, Wei, Strategic Informed Trading and Dark Pools (February 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3292516 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3292516
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
805
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,059
RANK
70,408
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies