Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Boardroom Centrality and Systematic Risk

48 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2018 Last revised: 7 May 2020

Yunsen Chen

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE)

Yao Lu

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Dengjin Zheng

Central University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: May 1, 2020

Abstract

We find that boardroom centrality formed by sharing directors across firms can significantly increase firms’ systematic risk. This positive effect is stronger when the shared directors also sit on the boards of other large firms or of firms included in the stock market index. It is also stronger when boardroom centrality is formed by inside executive directors or more experienced directors. Further corroborating these inferences, we find that boardroom centrality increases the accounting fundamental and corporate policy correlations between the appointing firm and other firms in the market. Furthermore, firms with higher boardroom centrality demonstrate significantly less idiosyncratic corporate behavior. Finally, we find that boardroom centrality is positively associated with firms’ cost of equity. These results remain robust after addressing endogenous issues using identification based on exogenous changes in directorship outside the focal firm. Overall, these findings highlight the important roles of corporate leaders in affecting firms’ systematic risk.

Keywords: accounting beta; social network; information transfer; cost of equity

JEL Classification: G30; M41; L14

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yunsen and Lu, Yao and Zheng, Dengjin, Boardroom Centrality and Systematic Risk (May 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3292653 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3292653
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
O Faleye , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Industry expertise on corporate boards
Review of Quantitative Finance & Accounting , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 441 - 479 Posted: 2018
Crossref
E F Fama , K R French
Multifactor explanations of asset pricing anomalies
Journal of Finance , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 55 - 84 Posted: 1996
Crossref
E F Fama , M C Jensen
Agency problems and residual claims
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 349 Posted: 1983
Crossref
S P Ferris , M Jagannathan , A C Pritchard
Too busy to mind the business? Monitoring by directors with multiple board appointments
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1087 - 1111 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
337
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,478
RANK
204,108
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies