Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Forecasting Ability and Predictive Ability of Dividend Changes for Future Earnings

Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance

Posted: 19 Dec 2018 Last revised: 14 Feb 2023

Hsihui Chang

Drexel University

Souhei Ishida

Hitotsubashi University

Takuma Kochiyama

Waseda University - School of Commerce; Graduate School of Business Administration, Hitotsubashi University

Date Written: November 20, 2018

Abstract

We revisit the predictive ability of dividend changes for firms’ future earnings and extend the literature by examining the effect of management forecasting ability. Although prior studies have examined the relationship between dividend changes and future earnings, the empirical evidence is mixed. The belief that dividend changes have implications for future earnings depends on the assumption that managers can accurately assess future earnings prospects. In this regard, we posit that the predictive ability of dividends can vary with managers’ forecasting ability. Analyzing a large sample of Japanese dividend-paying firms, we find that dividend changes, particularly dividend increases, are positively associated with increases in future earnings. Consistent with our hypothesis, this positive association is more pronounced for firms with high-forecasting ability managers. Our findings support the signaling theory of dividend changes and indicate that management forecasting ability has a moderating effect on the linkage between firms’ dividend changes and future earnings.

Keywords: Dividends; Management forecasting ability; Management earnings forecast; Predictive ability of dividends; Japan

JEL Classification: M10, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Hsihui and Ishida, Souhei and Kochiyama, Takuma, Management Forecasting Ability and Predictive Ability of Dividend Changes for Future Earnings (November 20, 2018). Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3294379 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3294379
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,052
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies