Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big Data Analytics Challenges & Internal Audit Function (IAF)’s Reliance on Big Data Analytics

Posted: 21 Dec 2018

Sharif Islam

Southern Illinois University - Southern Illinois University at Carbondale

Date Written: December 4, 2018

Abstract

Though big data analytics have a lot of potential to create value for accountants/auditors, data analytics are underutilized. The study examines the adoption of big data analytics by Internal Audit Function (IAF) given the challenges to the adoption. The results of the study suggest that data specific IT knowledge rather than general IT knowledge is significant to the adoption of big data analytics. Additionally, critical thinking skills and business knowledge also contribute to the adoption of big data analytics. Furthermore, if IAFs face challenges (management challenges) such as fraud risk detection, they are more likely to adopt big data analytics, thus highlighting the scenarios of the underutilization of the big data analytics by accountants in many cases. Moreover, the results from the interaction effect suggest that Chief Audit Executives (CAEs) with CPA certification are more likely to adopt big data analytics than the CAEs without CPA certification when the size of the organization is small, or when the size of the IAF is small, or when there is a lack of data specific IT knowledge or business skills. Another important finding is that, when two groups of IAFs have similar size and data specific IT knowledge, IAFs with fraud detection responsibility (management challenges) are more likely to adopt big data analytics. Finally, IAFs in Anglo culture countries are more likely to adopt big data analytics than IAFs in non-Anglo culture countries given that both IAFs have the same size and data specific IT knowledge. The study has both theoretical and practical implications, which are elaborated in the discussion of contribution.

Keywords: Big Data, Data Analytics, Fraud, Auditing

Suggested Citation:

Islam, Md. Shariful, Big Data Analytics Challenges & Internal Audit Function (IAF)’s Reliance on Big Data Analytics (December 4, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3295499
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,285
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies