Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pay Gap Within Banks: The Effect On Bank Performance

46 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2019 Last revised: 9 Aug 2019

Justin Chircop

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Lars Helge Haß

University of Strathclyde - Strathclyde Business School; Lancaster University - Lancaster University Management School

Paul Hribar

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting; University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: June 30, 2019

Abstract

Using a comprehensive sample of US banks for years 2001 to 2016, we split the pay gap between the CEO and rank-and-file employees into two: CEO pay gap and VP pay gap. We examine the effect on bank performance of the tournament incentives arising from these different pay gaps. We find that CEO pay gap is positively associated with bank performance and negatively associated with bank risk while VP pay gap is positively associated with bank risk. We show that only executive pay is sensitive to bank performance, which might explain the differing results for the association between pay gap and bank performance for the two groups. Further analysis suggests that the positive association between VP pay gap and bank risk is at least partly driven by the quantity and quality of loan origination. Finally, we show that the VP pay gap is associated with insufficient loan loss provisions consistent with increased unexpected rank-and-file employee risk taking.

Keywords: Tournament Incentives, Managerial Talent, Firm Risk, Firm Return, Corporate Policies

JEL Classification: G31, G32, G34, J31, J33, L14

Suggested Citation:

Chircop, Justin and Haß, Lars Helge and Hribar, Paul, Pay Gap Within Banks: The Effect On Bank Performance (June 30, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3295036 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3295036
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
243
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,261
RANK
287,617
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies