Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Are Firms With More Managerial Ownership Worth Less?

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming

Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2018-03-024

Charles A. Dice Center Working Paper No. 2018-24

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 18-75

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 587/2018

64 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2018 Last revised: 17 Sep 2020

Kornelia Fabisik

University of Bern; Frankfurt School of Finance & Management

Rüdiger Fahlenbrach

École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL); Swiss Finance Institute; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

René M. Stulz

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Finance; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Jérôme Taillard

Babson College

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 4, 2018

Abstract

Using more than 50,000 firm-years from 1988 to 2015, we show that the empirical relation between a firm’s Tobin’s q and managerial ownership is systematically negative. When we restrict our sample to larger firms as in the prior literature, our findings are consistent with the literature, showing that there is an increasing and concave relation between q and managerial ownership. We show that these seemingly contradictory results are explained by cumulative past performance and liquidity. Better performing firms have more liquid equity, which enables insiders to more easily sell shares after the IPO, and they also have a higher Tobin’s q.

Keywords: Firm valuation, Director and officer ownership, Liquidity, Performance history

JEL Classification: G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Fabisik, Kornelia and Fahlenbrach, Rüdiger and Stulz, Rene M. and Taillard, Jérôme, Why Are Firms With More Managerial Ownership Worth Less? (December 4, 2018). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2018-03-024, Charles A. Dice Center Working Paper No. 2018-24, Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 18-75, European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 587/2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3295797 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3295797
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
885
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,271
RANK
57,753
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University, Fisher College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies