Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Dividend Policy: Evidence of Tunneling from Master Limited Partnerships

Journal of Corporate Finance, Vol. 53, 2018

61 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2018 Last revised: 6 Sep 2019

Julian Atanassov

University of Nebraska

Aaron Mandell

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

Date Written: October 4, 2018

Abstract

Using a sample of 85 Delaware master limited partnerships (“MLPs”) from 2004 to 2016, we examine the relation between cash dividend policy and the strength of corporate governance measured by contractual governance provisions, such as fiduciary waiver, mandatory distributions, and voting rights, and by ownership structure. We find support for the tunneling model of dividend determination. Specifically, we document that firms with weaker governance pay out more cash dividends than better governed firms. We also find that, in the presence of low quality governance, these payments reduce firm value as well as the value of the firm's cash holdings, suggesting that they are viewed by the market as a tunneling (extraction) of resources by the general partner at the expense of limited unitholders.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Dividend policy, Master limited partnerships, Tunneling

JEL Classification: G34, G35

Suggested Citation:

Atanassov, Julian and Mandell, Aaron, Corporate Governance and Dividend Policy: Evidence of Tunneling from Master Limited Partnerships (October 4, 2018). Journal of Corporate Finance, Vol. 53, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3295928
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
F Adjaoud , W Ben-Amar
Corporate Governance and Dividend Policy: Shareholders' Protection or Expropriation?
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 37 , issue 5 Posted: 2010
Crossref
F Allen , R Michaely
Payout policy. Handbook of the Economics of Finance , volume 1 Posted: 2003
Söhnke M. Bartram , Philip R. Brown , Janice C. Y. How , Peter Verhoeven
Agency Conflicts and Corporate Payout Policies: A Global Study
WBS Finance Group Research Paper No. 119 Pages: 49 Posted: 17 Mar 2009 Last revised: 23 Dec 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Bertrand , P Mehta , S Mullainathan
Ferreting out Tunneling: An Application to Indian Business Groups
The Quarterly Journal of Economics Posted: 2002-02
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
968
RANK
538,134
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies