Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study on Level of Awareness on GST: A Study with Special Reference to Puducherry

10 Pages Posted: 26 Dec 2018

VEERAVEL V

Department of Banking Technology

Date Written: December 6, 2018

Abstract

Global experience shows that GST serves as a best tax system that contributes towards the revenue generating activities of the government; which might be one of the possible reason for being implemented in India. As implementation of GST is getting momentum in India. This study is attempts to investigate the level of awareness on GST in the city Puducherry among the selected traders based on convenient sampling of fifty respondents mostly general traders, with the help of a structured questionnaire. The findings of this study reveals that the level of awareness among the respondent on GST is still relatively low may be due to lack of adequate information on GST and its important features like input tax credit, refund, penalty etc. It is thus immediate necessary for the government to create mass awareness among the citizens and provide better and clear Knowledge on GST to enhance their knowledge and level of awareness in order to gain public confidence and achieve mass participation in new tax system.

Keywords: GST, Puducherry, Input Tax Credit

JEL Classification: H20, H2, H21

Suggested Citation:

V, VEERAVEL, A Study on Level of Awareness on GST: A Study with Special Reference to Puducherry (December 6, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3296841 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3296841
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
J M Bickley
Value added tax: concepts, policy issues, and OECD experiences Posted: 2003
L Csontos , J Kornai , I G Tóth
Tax awareness and reform of the welfare state: Hungarian survey results
Economics of Transition , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 287 - 312 Posted: 1998
Crossref
J Cullis , P Jones , P R Jones
Public finance and public choice: analytical perspectives Posted: 2009
P Hooper , K A Smith
A value-added tax in the US: An argument in favor
Business Horizons , volume 40 , issue 3 , p. 78 - 83 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
507
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,302
RANK
127,516
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies