Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investment Bank Governance and Client Relationships

55 Pages Posted: 26 Dec 2018 Last revised: 11 Apr 2023

Zhaohui Chen

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Alan D. Morrison

University of Oxford - Said Business School; University of Oxford - Merton College; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

William J. Wilhelm

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Yuchi Yao

University of Oregon - Charles H. Lundquist School of Business; Simon Business School, University of Rochester

Date Written: December 5, 2018

Abstract

The relational contract at the heart of an investment banking relationship is valuable because it engenders and requires mutual trust in a setting where conflicts of interest are significant and are not easily resolved through formal contract. But a bank’s ability to commit to a relational contract depends on internal governance mechanisms that align the interests of individual bankers with those of the bank. We argue that increasing complexity in investment banks weakens internal governance and estimate a causal model that indicates that the likelihood of a relationship being broken is increasing in bank complexity.

Keywords: relational contract, investment banking

JEL Classification: G24

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Zhaohui and Morrison, Alan and Wilhelm, William J. and Yao, Yuchi, Investment Bank Governance and Client Relationships (December 5, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3296347 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3296347
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
J Angrist , A B Krueger
Why Do World War II Veterans Earn More than Nonveterans
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 12 , p. 74 - 97 Posted: 1994
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
J Asker , A Ljungqvist
Competition and the Structure of Vertical Relationships in Capital Markets
Journal of Political Economy , volume 118 , p. 599 - 647 Posted: 2010
M Bertrand , A Schoar
Managing with Style: The Effect of Managers on Firm Policies
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , p. 1169 - 1208 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,863
RANK
382,931
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies