Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Moroccan Companies Incorporate Enterprise Risk Management? Results of a Survey

22 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2018

El Mehdi Kerraous

University Hassan II, Casablanca

Date Written: December 1, 2018

Abstract

Few empirical works focus on the incorporation of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) in Moroccan companies. Consequently, we conducted a survey on 39 large and medium companies of Casablanca/Rabat to fill this gap. Our survey concerns the adherence to ERM, its governance and the risk culture. Our results show that the main ERM’s incorporation started around 2005 and 2006. The main motivations of ERM’s incorporation concern the reinforcement of the corporate governance, the improvement of the performance and the respect of the regulatory requirements. Moreover, the majority of the respondents have an entity that is dedicated to ERM. This entity takes various forms and has an important position in the hierarchical structure. Finally, the surveyed companies attach a major importance to the development of risk culture through ERM’s documentation, the use of ERM’s frameworks and the organization of ERM’s specific training.

Keywords: Risk, Enterprise Risk Management, ERM’s Incorporation, Governance, Risk Culture, Moroccan Companies.

Suggested Citation:

Kerraous, El Mehdi, How Do Moroccan Companies Incorporate Enterprise Risk Management? Results of a Survey (December 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3297665 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3297665
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
M Altuntas , T R Berry-Stölzle , R E Hoyt
Implementation of enterprise risk management : Evidence from the German Property-Liability Insurance Industry', The Geneva papers on risk and insurance-issues and practice
Basel II: International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards: a Revised Framework , volume 36 , p. 414 - 439 Posted: 2004
B Barthélemy
Gestion des risques: Méthode d'optimisation globale Posted: 2000
M Beasley , B Branson , B Hancock
Current State of Enterprise Risk Oversight: Progress is Occurring but Opportunities for Improvement Remain Posted: 2012
M Beasley , D Pagach , R Warr
Information Conveyed in Hiring Announcements of Senior Executives Overseeing Enterprise-Wide Risk Management Processes
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 311 - 332 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,309
RANK
702,914
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies