Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Within the Corporate Governance Paradigm: A Cornerstone Built on Shifting Sand?

British Journal of Management (Forthcoming)

40 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2018

Richard J. Fairchild

University of Bath - School of Management

David Gwilliam

University of Wales

Oliver Marnet

University of Southampton

Date Written: March 01, 2017

Abstract

This paper is a case study-based investigation of aspects of the current paradigmatic approach to ‘good’ corporate governance with its focus on the interlinked roles of internal control and risk management procedures, internal audit and external audit, overseen and co-ordinated by a formal structure of board committees, in particular the audit committee. The evidence that we adduce from the study of four high-profile cases of perceived accounting and governance failure provides limited assurance that this approach will in fact be cost-effective or efficient in preventing further such cases of accounting and governance failure. Specifically, issues as to remuneration and fee dependence; lack of relevant knowledge and expertise; and social and psychological dependence upon executive management appear to have significantly and negatively affected the quality of decision-making of governance gatekeepers. This suggests that further consideration of relevant economic, institutional and cognitive/behavioural factors beyond the rational choice model of traditional economics should underpin future developments in required modes and structures of governance.



Keywords: Auditor Independence, Corporate Governance, Dependence, Bias

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, G3

Suggested Citation:

Fairchild, Richard J. and Gwilliam, David and Marnet, Oliver, Audit Within the Corporate Governance Paradigm: A Cornerstone Built on Shifting Sand? (March 01, 2017). British Journal of Management (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3300002
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Report And Recommendations of the Blue Ribbon Committee on Improving the Effectiveness of Corporate Audit Committees, The New York Stock Exchange and the National Association of Securities Dealers Posted: 1999
R Breeden , G Paris , W Savage , R Seitz
Report of Investigation by the Special Committee of the Board of Directors of Hollinger International Inc.' (Other members of the special committee
xv99w2.htm Center for Audit Quality (CAQ) Posted: 2004
F L Clarke , G W Dean , K G Oliver
Corporate Collapse: Regulatory, Accounting and Ethical Failure Posted: 2003
J C Coffee
The Acquiescent Gatekeeper: Reputational Intermediaries, Auditor Independence and the Governance of Accounting', Columbia Law School Center for Law and Economics Studies Working Paper Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,458
RANK
682,509
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies