Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predictive Analytics and the Centralization of Authority

Forthcoming in Journal of Accounting and Economics

66 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2019 Last revised: 29 Jul 2022

Eva Labro

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Mark H. Lang

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

James D. Omartian

University of Michigan - Ross School of Business

Date Written: July 1, 2021

Abstract

We examine the relation between plant-level predictive analytics use and centralization of authority for more than 25,000 manufacturing plants using proprietary US Census data. We focus on headquarters authority over plants through delegation of decision-making and design of performance-based incentives. We find that increased predictive analytics use is associated with reduced delegation of decision-rights to local managers, increased centralization of control over data gathering and reduced plant managerial payrolls. In terms of incentives, predictive analytics use is associated with more accurate targets and tighter linkages between rewards to workers (performance-based bonuses, promotions and firings) and measured performance. Overall, our findings suggest that predictive analytics use is associated with increased centralization of authority in headquarters.


Keywords: Authority in Organizations, Managerial Incentives, Delegation

JEL Classification: D23, L60, M52

Suggested Citation:

Labro, Eva and Lang, Mark H. and Omartian, James D., Predictive Analytics and the Centralization of Authority (July 1, 2021). Forthcoming in Journal of Accounting and Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3300927 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3300927
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
Determinants of control system design in divisionalized firms
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , p. 545 - 570 Posted: 2004
S Athey , G W Imbens
The state of applied econometrics: Causality and policy evaluation
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 31 , p. 3 - 32 Posted: 2017
S Athey , J Tibshirani , S Wager
Generalized random forests
The Annals of Statistics , volume 47 , p. 1148 - 1178 Posted: 2019
S Athey , S Wager
Estimating treatment effects with causal forests: An application
Observational Studies , volume 5 , p. 36 - 51 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
644
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,492
RANK
94,244
18 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies