Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Companies Are So Different?: Empirical Evidence on Corporate Governance and Financial Design of US Public Companies

22 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2019

Anastasia Stepanova

HSE University

Maria Kokoreva

National Research University Higher School of Economics; University College London - School of Slavonic and East European Studies

Date Written: December 15, 2018

Abstract

The prior work reports conflicting evidence on the relationship between owners, corporate governance, and capital structure of public nonfinancial companies as well as on the industry specific drivers of firm performance. We reexamine the links between the financial decisions in the companies and governance mechanisms by applying the inductive approach to the pool of public companies in Russell 3000. We apply the cluster analysis, which accounts for capital structure and governance mechanisms simultaneously, for determination of patterns of firm financial architecture. As a result, we show that these patterns do not strongly depend on the industry, and finally industry factors do not play the crucial role for the firm’s risk preferences and performance.

Keywords: ownership structure, corporate governance, firm performance, cluster analysis

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Stepanova, Anastasia N. and Kokoreva, Maria, Why Companies Are So Different?: Empirical Evidence on Corporate Governance and Financial Design of US Public Companies (December 15, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3301829 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3301829
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
S N Abdullah , K Ismail , L Nachum
Does having women on boards create value? The impact of societal perceptions and corporate governance in emerging markets
Strategic Management Journal , volume 37 , p. 466 - 476 Posted: 2015
Crossref
T Baladenius , N Melumad , X Meng
Board composition and CEO power
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 112 , p. 53 - 68 Posted: 2014
Crossref
F Barca , M Becht
An empirical analysis of the relation between the board of director composition and financial statement fraud
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
Crossref
A Berle , G Means
The modern corporate and private property Posted: 1932
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,519
RANK
255,414
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies