Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and LGBT-Supportive HR Policies from CSR, Resource-based, and Agency Perspectives

51 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2018

Denise Potosky

Pennsylvania State University, Great Valley School of Graduate Professional Studies

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Sang Mook Lee

Pennsylvania State University - Great Valley School of Graduate Professional Studies

Date Written: December 19, 2018

Abstract

Corporate boards are responsible for ensuring that managers enact policies that are in shareholders’ best interests, and managers are responsible for implementing strategies that are not only profitable, but responsive to changing legal and societal demands and the resource needs of the firm. In this paper, we use the theoretical lenses of corporate social responsibility (CSR), the resource-based view (resource-based view), and agency theory to investigate the relationship between corporate governance structure and the implementation of supportive lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) policies. We analyze 10,233 firm-year observations and 1,594 unique firms, and our results demonstrate that LGBT-supportive policies are positively associated with firm performance. We also offer new insight into why not all firms adopt such policies. We exploit the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as an exogenous shock that increased board independence, and our difference-in-difference estimation shows that firms forced to raise board independence in 2002 were less likely to invest in LGBT-supportive policies. Results suggest that HRM policies can be guided by CSR and resource-based view in pursuit of wealth maximization, but agency conflict may also be a concern for external majority boards. We discuss implications for HRM research practice, and corporate governance regarding LGBT policies in organizations.

Keywords: LGBT-supportive policies, corporate governance, firm performance, corporate social responsibility

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Potosky, Denise and Jiraporn, Pornsit and Lee, Sang Mook, Corporate Governance and LGBT-Supportive HR Policies from CSR, Resource-based, and Agency Perspectives (December 19, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3303647 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3303647
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
S Ahn , P Jiraporn , Y S Kim
Multiple directorships and acquirer returns
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 34 , p. 2011 - 2026 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J D Angrist , A B Krueger
Does Compulsory School Attendance Affect Schooling and Earnings?
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 106 , issue 4 , p. 979 - 1014 Posted: 1991
Crossref
M Anteby , C Anderson
The shifting landscape of LGBT organizational research
Research in Organizational Behavior , volume 34 , p. 3 - 25 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,343
RANK
298,527
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies