Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Watchdog to Watchman: Do Independent Directors Monitor a CEO of Their Own Age?

43 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2018

Yaoyao Fan

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) - International School of Business and Finance (ISBE)

Yuxiang Jiang

GalaxyAsset management; East China University of Science and Technology (ECUST)

Kose John

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Hong Liu

Loughborough University - Loughborough Business School

Date Written: December 19, 2018

Abstract

We examine the impact of the social attachment through age similarity between the independent directors and the CEO on earnings management. Using changes in independent director composition due to director death and retirement for identification, we find that firms with the presence of the independent directors who have the same age of the CEO are more likely to manage earnings, and this positive impact decreases as the age gap widens, but is intensified if the independent directors share other characteristics with the CEO, including gender, education level, nationality and executive experience, and if the independent directors sit on audit or nomination committees. Overall, our results that suggest the social attachment due to age similarity with the CEO weakens the intensity of board monitoring.

Keywords: Independent Directors; Earnings Management; Social Attachment; Age Similarity

JEL Classification: G30; M41

Suggested Citation:

Fan, Yaoyao and Jiang, Yuxiang and John, Kose and Liu, Hong, From Watchdog to Watchman: Do Independent Directors Monitor a CEO of Their Own Age? (December 19, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3303644 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3303644
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,523
RANK
505,214
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies