Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Cross-Listing Increase Managers’ Propensity to Listen to the Market in M&A Deals?

Journal of Corporate Finance, Vol. 46, 2017

Posted: 3 Jan 2019

Abed Al-Nasser Abdallah

American University of Sharjah

Wissam Abdallah

Lebanese American University

Date Written: June 30, 2017

Abstract

We investigate the validity of two conjectures regarding the impact of cross-listing on managers’ propensity to listen to the market in mergers and acquisitions (M&A) deals. The first maintains that cross-listing in the US improves price informativeness and investor protection leading managers of cross-listed firms to listen to the market when considering M&A deal. The second postulates that the lack of law enforcement by US Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) against foreign firms impairs cross-listing as an effective mechanism to deter opportunistic managers; as a result, managers tend to ignore market signals in M&A deals. We find that managers of cross-listed firms from strong shareholder protection countries are more likely to listen to the market. Further analysis indicates that the likelihood to listen to the market differs by host market. While we do not find an association between cross-listing and listening to the market for firms cross-listed on US regulated exchanges, there is some evidence that cross-listing on unregulated market affects the propensity to follow market signals. We find that listening to the market improves firm value and the impact is enhanced post cross-listing due to improvement in stock price informativeness.

Keywords: cross-listing, mergers and acquisitions, market feedback, listening, investment, analysts, private information

JEL Classification: G10, G15, G18, G34

Suggested Citation:

Abdallah, Abed Al-Nasser and Abdallah, Wissam, Does Cross-Listing Increase Managers’ Propensity to Listen to the Market in M&A Deals? (June 30, 2017). Journal of Corporate Finance, Vol. 46, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3303945
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
880
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies