Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Matching Premiums in the Executive Labor Market

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, https://doi.org/10.2308/accr-52393

48 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2019 Last revised: 7 Feb 2019

Mary Ellen Carter

Boston College - Department of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Francesca Franco

Bocconi University

A. Irem Tuna

London Business School

Date Written: December 20, 2018

Abstract

We study whether executives receive pay premiums for the uncertainty of their match with a new firm. Using changes in executive-firm matches from ExecuComp, we document that executives receive significant attraction premiums when they move to new firms. These premiums vary with proxies that capture potential sources of uncertainty about the quality of the match and are incremental to pay for managerial talent, generalist ability, industry turnover risk, and potential additional costs incurred by the new employer to attract the executive to the firm, such as payments for forfeited equity and relocation costs. Consistent with compensation for uncertainty of fit, we find that the premiums decrease with the executive’s tenure at the new firm, as the uncertainty about the executive-firm match is resolved over time. Our findings raise the possibility that attraction premiums are an additional cost of executive turnover and may contribute to the overall rise in executive pay.

Keywords: Executive Compensation, Human Capital, Pay Premiums, Executive Labor Market, Matching

JEL Classification: J24, J33, M12, M52

Suggested Citation:

Carter, Mary Ellen and Franco, Francesca and Tuna, Ayse Irem, Matching Premiums in the Executive Labor Market (December 20, 2018). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, https://doi.org/10.2308/accr-52393, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3304705 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3304705
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
D Mcclelland
Compensation and top management turnover. Working paper Posted: 1961
T Milbourn
CEO reputation and stock-based compensation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 68 , issue 2 , p. 233 - 62 Posted: 2003
Crossref
K Murphy , J Zabojnik
CEO pay and appointments: A market-based explanation for recent trends
AEA Papers and Proceeds , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 192 - 196 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Kevin J. Murphy , Jan Zabojnik
Managerial Capital and the Market for CEOs
Pages: 50 Posted: 8 May 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
278
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,346
RANK
250,789
11 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies