Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Regulation and Corporate Acquisitions

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 654/2020

93 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2019 Last revised: 2 Feb 2020

Pietro Bonetti

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Miguel Duro

IESE Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Gaizka Ormazabal

University of Navarra, IESE Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 19, 2019

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of disclosure regulation on the takeover market. We study the implementation of a recent European regulation that imposes tighter disclosure requirements regarding the financial and ownership information on public firms. We find a substantial drop in the number of control acquisitions after the implementation of the regulation, a decrease that is concentrated in countries with more dynamic takeover markets. Consistent with the idea that the disclosure requirements increased acquisition costs, we also observe that, under the new disclosure regime, target (acquirer) stock returns around the acquisition announcement are higher (lower), and toeholds are substantially smaller. Overall, our evidence suggests that tighter disclosure requirements can impose significant acquisition costs on bidders and thus slow down takeover activity.

Keywords: disclosure regulation, takeover market, takeover laws, mergers and acquisitions

JEL Classification: G34, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bonetti, Pietro and Duro, Miguel and Ormazabal, Gaizka, Disclosure Regulation and Corporate Acquisitions (December 19, 2019). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 654/2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3304818 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3304818
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
S Betton , B E Eckbo , K S Thorburn
Merger negotiations and the toehold puzzle
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 91 , p. 158 - 178 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J Coffee , D Palia
The wolf at the door: The impact of hedge fund activism on corporate governance
Annals of Corporate Governance , volume 1 , issue S13 , p. 1 - 96 Posted: 2016
P H Conac
Cash-settled derivatives (CSDS) as a takeover instrument and the reform of the EU Transparency directive , volume 4 Posted: 2012
Proposal to extend major shareholding notifications to instruments of similar economic effect to holding shares and entitlements to acquire shares. Committee of European Securities Regulator Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
467
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,325
RANK
138,343
6 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies