Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Changing Implications and Broadening Reach of Anti-Corruption Legislation: Issues and Concerns Regarding the FCPA Enforcement

Journal of Business Compliance, Baltzer Science Publishers, Issue 1

Posted: 5 Jan 2019

Gonenc Gurkaynak

ELIG Gürkaynak Attorneys-at-Law

Olgu Kama

Norton Rose Fulbright LLP

Derya Durlu Gürzumar

University of Neuchâtel

Date Written: February 2013

Abstract

Corruption is a threat to the individual, the company executive, the company’s reputation and its shareholders and to international trade and commerce generally. The publication of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Guidelines has once ignited the debate surrounding proper or improper conduct of any and all businesses as regards relations to government officials and public procurement. Coming a year after the UK Bribery Act expanded the remit of compliance programs to broaden concerns of corruption to include non-government officials also, there is a need to consider how best to identify potential corruption risks facing the firm, and for firms to urgently take actions to protect the company against increasingly extra-territorial applications of anti-corruption laws and regulations. The purpose of this paper is to provide insight on the challenges and some of the issues arising out of the implementation of these FCPA guidelines.

Keywords: FCPA, Bribery, Anti-Corruption, Compliance

JEL Classification: K20, K42

Suggested Citation:

Gurkaynak, Gonenc and Kama, Olgu and Durlu Gürzumar, Derya, The Changing Implications and Broadening Reach of Anti-Corruption Legislation: Issues and Concerns Regarding the FCPA Enforcement (February 2013). Journal of Business Compliance, Baltzer Science Publishers, Issue 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3305016
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
855
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Institutions & Transition Economics: Political Economy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies