Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance and Corporate Innovation

47 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2019 Last revised: 24 Apr 2019

Rongli Yuan

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Jian Sun

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy

Feng Cao

Hunan University - Business School

Date Written: June 1, 2018

Abstract

We examine whether directors’ and officers’ (D&O) liability insurance affects corporate innovation. We find a positive association between D&O insurance and innovation. The result is robust to a series of robustness checks, including Heckman model, longer test windows of corporate innovation and a difference-in-differences analysis based on a propensity-score-matched sample. Our further analyses show that the impact of D&O insurance on innovation becomes more pronounced for firms with lower risk tolerance, higher litigation risk, and a stronger willingness to innovate. Finally, we find that risk-taking appears to be the underlying channel through which D&O insurance affects innovation.

Keywords: Directors’ and officers’ liability (D&O) insurance; Corporate innovation; Risk-taking

JEL Classification: G22, G34, O31

Suggested Citation:

Yuan, Rongli and Sun, Jian and Cao, Feng, Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance and Corporate Innovation (June 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3305503 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3305503
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
M Powell , Ansic , D
Gender differences in risk behaviour in financial decisionmaking: An experimental analysis
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 18 , p. 605 - 628 Posted: 1997
Crossref
R M Solow
Technical change and the aggregate production function
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 39 , p. 312 - 320 Posted: 1957
Crossref
E K Sulaiman
An empirical analysis of financial risk tolerance and demographic features of individual investors
Procedia Economics and Finance , volume 2 , p. 109 - 115 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Sunder , S V Sunder , J Zhang
Pilot CEOs and corporate innovation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 123 , p. 209 - 224 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,273
RANK
302,262
1 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies