Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Bank Performance: Islamic versus Non-Islamic Banks in GCC Countries

Chazi, A., A. Khallaf and Z. Zantout. 2017. Corporate Governance and Bank Performance: Islamic versus non-Islamic Banks in GCC Countries. Journal of Developing Areas

Posted: 13 Feb 2019

Abdelaziz Chazi

American University of Sharjah - School of Business & Management

Ashraf Khallaf

American University of Sharjah

Zaher Zantout

American University of Sharjah

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

Using an exhaustive sample of banks in the Gulf Cooperation Council region, in the years 2007 to 2009, this research examines the relative operating performance and risk-taking behavior of Islamic and non-Islamic banks during the global financial crisis and the role played by their corporate governance characteristics. The results show that, during the crisis, assets of Islamic banks outperformed those of non-Islamic banks significantly. Islamic banks also exhibited a more prudent risk-management behavior and higher solvency than non-Islamic banks. Moreover, consistent with the notion of the importance of corporate governance, asset-productivity at Islamic banks is significantly increasing in family- and foreign-ownership and the effectiveness of the legal system and investor protection, and it is decreasing in board size and insiders. Furthermore, risk-taking behavior at Islamic banks is decreasing in government- and family-ownership and the investor-protection level in the home country.

Suggested Citation:

Chazi, Abdelaziz and Khallaf, Ashraf and Zantout, Zaher, Corporate Governance and Bank Performance: Islamic versus Non-Islamic Banks in GCC Countries (2017). Chazi, A., A. Khallaf and Z. Zantout. 2017. Corporate Governance and Bank Performance: Islamic versus non-Islamic Banks in GCC Countries. Journal of Developing Areas, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3306330
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
813
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies