Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of Voluntary Disclosure Before and after the Establishment of the Integrated Reporting Framework

Acc. Fin. Review 3 (4) 105 – 113 (2018)

9 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2019

Nahariah Jaffar

Multimedia University (MMU) - Faculty of Management

Azleen Shabrina Mohd Nor

Multimedia University (MMU)

Zarehan Selamat

Multimedia University (MMU)

Date Written: December 8, 2018

Abstract

Objective - The goal of integrated reporting is to enhance the cohesiveness and efficiency of corporate reporting. It encourages organizations to create greater value by identifying the factors that have a material impact on its operations. The Integrated Reporting (IR) Framework guides the overall content of an integrated report through the Guiding Principles and Content Elements. The Framework has eight elements. This study explores the level of voluntary disclosure of information related to these eight elements by companies listed on the Bursa Malaysia before and after the establishment of the Framework.

Methodology/Technique - This study examines the annual reports of 603 Main Market listed companies of Bursa Malaysia between 2012 and 2015. The year 2012 is referred to as the "pre-issuance period" while 2015 is referred to as the "post issuance period".

Findings - The findings of the study show that the companies that do disclose more information, do so in relation to three out of the eight elements only. These are: governance, strategy and resource allocation, and outlook. Overall, there is a lack of lineage among the information related to the IR elements presented in the annual reports.

Novelty - The findings demonstrate the need for the full adoption of integrated reporting in Malaysia.

Keywords: Content Elements; Integrated Reporting Framework; Listed Companies; Pre and Post Issuance Period; Voluntary Disclosure

JEL Classification: M40; M41; M49

Suggested Citation:

Jaffar, Nahariah and Nor, Azleen Shabrina Mohd and Selamat, Zarehan, Analysis of Voluntary Disclosure Before and after the Establishment of the Integrated Reporting Framework (December 8, 2018). Acc. Fin. Review 3 (4) 105 – 113 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3307271
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,232
RANK
420,501
2 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies