Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Long Term Performance Improve Following the Appointment of a CIO?

International Journal of Accounting Information Systems 12 (1):57-78.

Posted: 12 Jan 2019

Ashraf Khallaf

American University of Sharjah

Terrance R. Skantz

University of Texas - Arlington

Date Written: Spring 2010

Abstract

The chief information officer (CIO) is crucial to integrating information technology into firm strategy. While there is evidence that capital markets react favorably to CIO appointments in the days surrounding the appointment announcement, this is the first study to examine the change in firm accounting performance in the years following the appointment of a new CIO. To control for exogenous factors unrelated to CIO effectiveness, the performance of appointing firms is measured relative to industry-wide average performance for firms that did not create a new or fill an existing CIO position. Using multiple accounting return measures that are responsive to changes in efficiency and effectiveness, we find an improvement in performance that is limited largely to firms appointing to newly created positions. As expected, there are significant performance increases for “first movers” who create new CIO positions early relative to their competitors; however, firms late to appoint their first CIO also obtain similar advantages. We also find that the effect on firm performance is contingent on the economic environment of the firm and that performance improvement is most pronounced for CIO appointments occurring later in calendar time, for firms operating in industries with low sales growth, and for firms in industries with highly dynamic economic environments.

Keywords: CIO Appointments, CIO Capabilities, Long Term Performance, IT Investments

JEL Classification: M15, M41, M12

Suggested Citation:

Khallaf, Ashraf and Skantz, Terry R., Does Long Term Performance Improve Following the Appointment of a CIO? (Spring 2010). International Journal of Accounting Information Systems 12 (1):57-78., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3307878
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
906
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies