Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reviewing Mergers: Assessing Performance and Strategic Issues

14 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2019

Trilok Kumar Jain

Suresh Gyan Vihar University

Date Written: December 29, 2018

Abstract

Based on secondary data and interviews of executives, this paper reviews mergers during last decade in India. Based on this review of mergers of companies in India, the author finds that there is a positive impact of mergers on earning per share and therefore there is a tendency on the part of companies to go for merger with the ultimate objectives of gaining synergies and better performance. Secondary data revealed the due to merger, there was decline in return on assets, but the Earning per share improved, which resulted in better valuation and better market appreciation. Primary data revealed that executives found that merger improved overall performance. However, the author also finds that there is lack of proper information among employees. The executives reported experiencing heightened level of stress and anxiety due to the event of merger. There is a need of proper orientation and information sharing and training to the employees. Mergers generate positive outcomes, but companies must also focus on building better culture and create proper motivation and training among employees.

Keywords: merger, amalgamation, performance, strategic management, strategy

JEL Classification: G34, N25

Suggested Citation:

Jain, Trilok Kumar, Reviewing Mergers: Assessing Performance and Strategic Issues (December 29, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3307672 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3307672
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,160
RANK
692,403
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies