Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Dividend Policy in Indian Companies: A Panel Data Analysis

Proceedings of 10th International Conference on Digital Strategies for Organizational Success

18 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2019 Last revised: 3 Feb 2019

Navita Nathani

Prestige Institute of Management

Ritu Gangil

Jiwaji University

Date Written: January 6, 2019

Abstract

This article examined the determinants of the dividend policy of Automobiles companies and pharmaceuticals companies listed on Auto index and Pharma Index of the sectoral indices of national stock exchange in India. The study covers the tenure of ten years starting from 2006-2007 to 2015-2016. Static panel data model has been used for the analysis. From the literature review we identified the variables like profitability measure as Return on equity, Liquidity or cash flow, leverage (debt equity ratio), investment opportunities, dividend distribution tax, retained earnings, size of the company and sales growth of the company which affect the dividend decision of the company. The result of panel regression concludes that in automobiles sector Liquidity/Cash Flow, dividend distribution tax, investment opportunities and retained earnings are the significant factor which influence the dividend payout ratio where as in Pharmaceuticals sector profitability, debt equity ratio, sales growth and retained earnings are the significant factor for deciding dividend payout ratio.

Keywords: Dividend Policy, Automobiles sector, Pharmaceuticals sector and Panel Regression

Suggested Citation:

Nathani, Navita and Gangil, Ritu, Determinants of Dividend Policy in Indian Companies: A Panel Data Analysis (January 6, 2019). Proceedings of 10th International Conference on Digital Strategies for Organizational Success, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3308721 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3308721
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
H Ahmed , A Y &amp;javid
Dynamics and determinants of dividend policy in Pakistan (evidence from Karachi stock exchange non-financial listed firms) Posted: 2008
V Aivazian , L Booth , S Cleary
Do emerging market firms follow different dividend policies from US firms
Journal of Financial research , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 371 - 387 Posted: 2003
Crossref
D Al-Kuwari
Determinants of the dividend policy of companies listed on emerging stock exchanges: the case of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries Posted: 2009
B Al-Najjar , K &amp;hussainey
The association between dividend payout and outside directorships
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 4 - 19 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
860
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,939
RANK
64,523
1 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies