Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Executives’ Characteristics on Bank Performance: The Case of Emerging Market

Journal of Governance and Regulation, Volume 7, Issue 4, 2018

6 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2019

David P. E. Saerang

Sam Ratulangi University

Joy Elly Tulung

Sam Ratulangi University

Imelda Ogi

Sam Ratulangi University

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

This research is expected to provide information for the benefits of Bank SulutGo and also the Government of North Sulawesi in forming the composition of the board of directors and board of commissioner and all bank officials in SulutGo Bank. The population and samples are SulutGo Bank officials consisting of boards of commissioners, boards of directors, division leaders and branch leaders of all the Banks of SulutGo. They consist of 4 Commissioners, 5 Directors, 2 Heads of Department, 19 Heads and Divisional Representatives, plus 94 head offices (head office, branch offices and sub-branch offices) scattered throughout the provinces of North Sulawesi, Gorontalo, DKI Jakarta and East Java. In measuring the performance of BPD, Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR), Return on Assets (ROA) and Return on Equity (ROE) are employed. The results show age, education level, work period and gender has a positive relationship with CAR, but there is no relationship with ROA, ROE and Total Assets. The same with the F-test, simultaneously age, education level, work period and gender has a positive relationship with CAR but there is no relationship with ROA, ROE and Total Assets.

Keywords: Executives Characteristics, Bank Performance, Bank SulutGo

JEL Classification: G21, G34

Suggested Citation:

Saerang, David P. E. and Tulung, Joy Elly and Ogi, Imelda, The Influence of Executives’ Characteristics on Bank Performance: The Case of Emerging Market (2018). Journal of Governance and Regulation, Volume 7, Issue 4, 2018 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3308023
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
492
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,805
RANK
132,233
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies