Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Managers Issue More Voluntary Disclosure When GAAP Limits Their Reporting Discretion in Financial Statements?

61 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2019 Last revised: 12 Aug 2021

Paul Hribar

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting; University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Richard Mergenthaler

Penn State University

Aaron Roeschley

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Spencer Young

The University of Oklahoma

Chris X. Zhao

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) – Department of Accountancy and Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 1, 2019

Abstract

We examine whether managers provide more voluntary disclosure when GAAP limits their reporting discretion in financial statements. We find managers are more likely to disclose non-GAAP earnings, issue more management forecasts, and provide longer yet more readable MD&A disclosures when GAAP limits their discretion. These effects are stronger when there is greater demand for information and better monitoring. In contrast, these effects are weaker when managers have incentives to manage earnings. Difference-in-differences analyses around standard changes provide further evidence that managers make more non-GAAP adjustments and are more likely to discuss the standard and its underlying transaction in the MD&A when a new standard limits their discretion more than its predecessor. Collectively, our results suggest managers use voluntary disclosure channels to convey information when GAAP limits their ability to recognize such information in financial statements.

Keywords: managerial discretion, mandatory disclosure, voluntary disclosure, quality of accounting information

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Hribar, Paul and Mergenthaler, Richard Dean and Roeschley, Aaron and Young, Spencer and Zhao, Chris X., Do Managers Issue More Voluntary Disclosure When GAAP Limits Their Reporting Discretion in Financial Statements? (January 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3308900 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3308900
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
C Anilowski , M Feng , D J Skinner
Does Earnings Guidance Affect Market Returns? The Nature and Information Content of Aggregate Earnings Guidance
Journal of accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-Section and Time-Series Effects
Journal of financial markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R Ball , S Jayaraman , And L Shivakumar
Audited Financial Reporting and Voluntary Disclosure as Complements: A Test of the Confirmation Hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 136 - 166 Posted: 2012
Crossref
L Bamber , J Jiang , And I Wang
What's My Style? The Influence of Top Managers on Voluntary Corporate Financial Disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
778
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,671
RANK
73,797
14 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies