Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can shareholders benefit from consumer protection disclosure mandates? Evidence from data breach disclosure laws

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming; https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2020-0787

Posted: 19 Jan 2019 Last revised: 3 Nov 2022

Musaib Ashraf

Michigan State University - Eli Broad College of Business

Jayanthi Sunder

University of Arizona - Eller College of Management

Date Written: June 17, 2018

Abstract

Data breach disclosure laws are state-level disclosure mandates intended to protect individuals from the consequences of identity theft. However, we argue that the laws help reduce shareholder risk by encouraging managers to take real actions to reduce firms’ exposure to cyber risk. Consistent with this argument, we find an on-average decrease in shareholder risk, proxied by cost of equity, after the staggered passage of these laws. We also find the effect is attenuated for firms that already took real actions to manage cyber risk before the laws. Further, after these laws, firms are more likely to increase cybersecurity investments and have a cybersecurity officer. Finally, we observe positive abnormal returns on key dates related to the passage of these laws. Our collective evidence suggests that consumer protection disclosure mandates can benefit shareholders and, specifically, that regulators can use disclosure mandates to incentivize managers to reduce firms’ exposure to cyber risk.

Keywords: cybersecurity, cyber risk, disclosure, cost of capital, information technology, real effects, capital markets, disclosure mandates, consumer protection, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G120, G340

Suggested Citation:

Ashraf, Musaib and Sunder, Jayanthi, Can shareholders benefit from consumer protection disclosure mandates? Evidence from data breach disclosure laws (June 17, 2018). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming; https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2020-0787, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3308551 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3308551
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,580
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies