Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between Firm Market Power and Audit Fee Decisions

Journal of International Trade & Commerce, Vol.14, No.3, pp.89-99, 2018

11 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2019

Il-Hang Shin

Chonbuk National University - College of Commerce

Date Written: June 19, 2018

Abstract

This study analyzed the relationship between firm market power and audit fee decision. Specifically, the impact of the market power measured by market share on audit fee was determined, and also the impact of the company’s governance structure on the relationship between market power and audit fee was analyzed. This paper finds that firm market power is positively related to audit fee. This result is pronounced for firms with good corporate governance. Specifically, results are summarized as follows. First, there is a positive relationship between market power and audit fee. Second, the largest shareholder mitigates the positive relationship between market power and audit fee. Third, foreign investors strengthen the positive relationship between market power and audit fee. The contributions of the study are as follows. First, this study systematically examined the relationship between market power and audit fee that were rarely highlighted in the preceding studies. Second, this study provides a systematic and expanded view of the impact of corporate governance on audit quality. Third, this study offers the stakeholders in the capital market with insights from implications that express the necessity of utilizing the company’s competitive status and information in order to evaluate the reliability of the company’s financial statements.

Keywords: Audit Fee, Corporate Governance, Market Power, Market Share

JEL Classification: C23, M42

Suggested Citation:

Shin, Il-Hang, The Relationship between Firm Market Power and Audit Fee Decisions (June 19, 2018). Journal of International Trade & Commerce, Vol.14, No.3, pp.89-99, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3309545
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
L Abbott , J Gary , F Peters , S Parker
The Association between Audit Committee Characteristics and Audit Fee , volume 22 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Bedard , K Johnstone
Earnings Manipulation Risk, Corporate Governance Risk, and Auditors' Planning and Pricing Decision
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J V Carello , D R Hermanson , T L Neal , R R Riley
Board Characteristics and Audit Fee
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 19 , p. 365 - 385 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J H Choi , H S Yang
An Examination on the Relationship between Corporate Govanance, Audit Fees, and Audit Hours
Korean Accounting Information Research , volume 26 , p. 59 - 77 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,121
RANK
601,090
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies