Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Corporate Reputation and Compensation Disclosure on Investor Judgments

2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2019-103

34 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2019 Last revised: 10 Mar 2019

Poh-Sun Seow

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Clarence Goh

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Gary Pan

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 7, 2019

Abstract

Regulators have increased the disclosure requirements of top executives as part of corporate governance reform. This study examines how trust arising from a firm’s corporate reputation will interact with top executive compensation disclosure to influence investor judgments. This study used a 2 X 2 between subjects experimental design, with corporate reputation (good versus bad) and pay ratio (high versus low) as independent variables to test the hypotheses. The key findings show that if the firm with a good corporate reputation discloses a high pay ratio, participants punished the good reputation firm more than the bad reputation firm, demonstrating a negative violation of expectations. On the other hand, if the firm with a bad corporate reputation discloses a low pay ratio, participants rewarded the bad reputation firm more than the good reputation firm, demonstrating a positive violation of expectations. The results of this study may be limited by its particular circumstances of corporate reputation and compensation disclosure, making generalizations of the findings to other settings difficult.

Keywords: corporate reputation, executive compensation disclosure, investor judgments

Suggested Citation:

Seow, Poh-Sun and Goh, Clarence and Pan, Gary, The Effects of Corporate Reputation and Compensation Disclosure on Investor Judgments (January 7, 2019). 2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2019-103, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3311443 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3311443
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
J S Adams
Toward an understanding of inequity
Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology , volume 67 , p. 422 - 436 Posted: 1963
Crossref
M L Barnett , J M Jermier , B A Lafferty
Corporate reputation: The definitional landscape
Corporate Reputation Review , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 26 - 38 Posted: 2006
Crossref
G Berens , C Van Riel
Corporate associations in the academic literature: Three main streams of thought in the reputation measurement literature
Corporate Reputation Review , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 161 - 178 Posted: 2004
Crossref
E Blankespoor , B E Hendricks , G S Miller
Perceptions and price: Evidence from CEO presentations at IPO roadshows
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 55 , issue 2 , p. 275 - 327 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,956
RANK
228,376
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies