Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Big Five Personality and Stock Price Crash Risk

2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

52 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2019 Last revised: 26 Mar 2019

Ming Liu

McGill University - Desautels Faculty of Management

Date Written: January 8, 2019

Abstract

This study investigates whether CEO Big Five personalities (i.e., agreeableness, conscientiousness, extraversion, neuroticism and openness) are associated with stock price crash risk. The Big Five can influence managerial behaviors to withhold or release bad news. When the amount of withheld negative information is accumulated to a threshold, the accumulated bad news come out at once and lead to crashes. We find that agreeableness and neuroticism are positively related to stock price crash risk and conscientiousness is negatively related to stock price crash risk. We then examine the effects of personalities on managerial bad news withholding, supporting the bad news hoarding channel. Moreover, we find the mitigating effects of agreeableness and neuroticism and the contributing effects of conscientiousness are more pronounced when firms have higher CEO dominance, lower litigation risk and higher financial constraints. However, higher institutional ownership is not enough to mitigate the contributing effects of conscientiousness on stock crashes.

Keywords: CEO Personality, Stock Crash Risk, Bad News Hoarding

JEL Classification: G02, G14, G30, M12, M40

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Ming, CEO Big Five Personality and Stock Price Crash Risk (January 8, 2019). 2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3312426 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3312426
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
710
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,203
RANK
83,067
3 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies