Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of CSR Performance and CSR Disclosure Readability on Investors’ Earnings Judgment

Posted: 10 Jan 2019

Yasheng Chen

Xiamen University - Accounting Department

Jingyu Gao

Renmin University of China

Min Zhang

Renmin University of China

Date Written: January 8, 2019

Abstract

Given the fact that there are no clear regulations guiding firms to publicly disclose CSR performance in practice, it is possible that management strategically uses discretion to emphasize (obfuscate) favorable (unfavorable) information in public disclosures, wishing to “manipulate” investors’ reactions. Little research has been conducted to investigate whether investors behave as expected. By conducting a 2×2 between-subject experiment using eye-tracking device in which we manipulate CSR Performance (positive vs. neutral) and CSR Disclosure Readability (high vs. low), we aim to open this “black box” and shed light on this question. Consistent with emotional memory enhancement theory and readability literature, we find that CSR Performance and CSR Disclosure Readability positively influence investors’ earnings judgment. Additionally, the influence of CSR Disclosure Readability is significant only when the CSR Performance is positive rather than neutral. Eye-tracking device allows us to investigate the role of visual attention in investors’ judgment involving both financial information and CSR information. In particular, we measure (1) the length of time that investors looking at specific information (Total Fixation Time) and (2) investors’ Reading Strategy, which involves Reading Sequence and Repeated Reading. We also examine the potential mechanisms through which CSR Performance and CSR Disclosure Readability influence investor’s decision-making process. The implications of our findings are discussed.

Keywords: CSR Performance, Disclosure Readability, Investor Judgment, Eye-tracking

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yasheng and Gao, Jingyu and Zhang, Min, The Effect of CSR Performance and CSR Disclosure Readability on Investors’ Earnings Judgment (January 8, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3312006
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,752
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies