Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Summarizing Articles about Corporate Governance and International Financial Reporting Standards

5 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2019

Khulood Alsaffar

Ahlia University

Date Written: January 5, 2019

Abstract

The objective of this study is to have many accounting standards and have significant economic impacts and results that may affect financial reporting in different sectors, international financial institutions and companies should practice accounting practices correctly.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Financial Accounting Standards Committee "Auditor Independence Requirements, IFRS, ENRON American Energy Company

Suggested Citation:

Alsaffar, Khulood, Summarizing Articles about Corporate Governance and International Financial Reporting Standards (January 5, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3314809 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3314809
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Abdalmuttaleb Al-Sartawi , Z Sanad
Institutional ownership and corporate governance: evidence from Bahrain
Afro-Asian Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 101 - 115 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Al-Sartawi , Fatema Abdalmuttaleb , Zakeya Alrawahi , Sanad
Corporate Governance and the Level of Compliance with International Accounting Standards (IAS-1): Evidence from Bahrain Bourse
International Research Journal of Finance and Economics , volume 157 , p. 110 - 122 Posted: 2016
Abdalmuttaleb Al-Sartawi
The impact of Corporate Governance on GCC Listed Banks Performance: Comparative Study between the Islamic and non-Islamic banks
Attaawun Journal , volume 79 , p. 66 - 90 Posted: 2013
Abdalmuttaleb Al-Sartawi
The Effect of Corporate Governance on the Performance of the listed Companies in the Gulf Cooperation Council Countries
Jordan Journal of Business Administration , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 705 - 725 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,089
RANK
718,946
1 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies