Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Leverage, Capital Requirements and the Implied Cost of (Equity) Capital

Proceedings of Paris December 2019 Finance Meeting EUROFIDAI - ESSEC

73 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2019 Last revised: 12 Feb 2020

Christian Schmidt

University of Mannheim

Date Written: January 11, 2019

Abstract

Do heightened capital requirements impose private costs on banks by adversely affecting their cost of capital? And if so, does the effect differ across different groups of banks? Using an international sample of listed banks over the period from 1990 to 2017, I find that equity investors adjust their expected return weakly in accordance with the Modigliani and Miller (1958) Theorem when banks decrease their leverage. The adjustment is stronger for smaller banks, banks that rely more on deposit financing and when debt is reduced rather than deposits, which never triggers a statistically significant adjustment. In any cases, the adjustment is not strong enough to keep banks' cost of capital constant which is estimated to increase by 10 to 40bps, representing a relative increase of 2.8% to 12.6%, when shifting equity from 8% to 16%. When using the 2011 EBA capital exercise as a quasi-natural experiment to identify the impact of capital regulation on bank's cost of capital, results indicate a strong reduction in required returns for the treated banks. However, the reduction is mainly caused by shifts in asset risk, highlighting the importance of differentiating between short-run and long-run effects.

Keywords: Bank Leverage, Implied Cost of Capital, EBA Capital Exercise, Capital Requirements, Bank Regulation, Modigliani-Miller

JEL Classification: C33, G21, G28, G32

Suggested Citation:

Schmidt, Christian, Bank Leverage, Capital Requirements and the Implied Cost of (Equity) Capital (January 11, 2019). Proceedings of Paris December 2019 Finance Meeting EUROFIDAI - ESSEC, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3314171 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3314171
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,879
RANK
202,787
3 Citations
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies