Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Auditing & Risk Management, No. 4 (52)

Internal Auditing & Risk Management, No. 4 (52), 2018

104 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2019

Emilia Vasile

Universitatea Athenaeum

Dănuţ-Octavian Simion

Universitatea Athenaeum

Lilian Onescu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Alexandru Bulearcă

Athenaeum University Bucharest; Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Ion Croitoru

University of Bucharest

Brînduşa-Mihaela Radu

Universitatea Athenaeum

Radu Gheorghe

Universitatea Athenaeum

Otilia Manta

Universitatea Athenaeum

Date Written: December 27, 2018

Abstract

The performance of economic organizations in practice is characterized by: economy - obtaining the necessary resources at the lowest cost, efficiency-maximizing the results obtained from a given amount of resources, or minimizing the amount of resources for a planned outcome and effectiveness – the results achieved achieve the expected results. The determination of the level of organizational performance is determined by how human, material, informational and financial resources are used to achieve the proposed objectives to the level of expectations and how they satisfy the organizational interest.

Keywords: Financial Management, Audit, Business, Economic Organizations

Suggested Citation:

Vasile, Emilia and Simion, Dănuţ-Octavian and Onescu, Lilian and Bulearcă, Alexandru and Croitoru, Ion and Radu, Brînduşa-Mihaela and Gheorghe, Radu and Manta, Otilia, Internal Auditing & Risk Management, No. 4 (52) (December 27, 2018). Internal Auditing & Risk Management, No. 4 (52), 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3314184
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
D Alexandresco
The theoretical and practical explanation of Romanian civil law in comparison with the old laws and the main foreign legislation Posted: 1898
J Flour , Aubert J Flour , Y Savaux , E
Droit civil. Les obligations, 1. L'acte juridique , volume 10 Posted: 2002
J M Ghestin , Gr Billiau , Loiseau
Le régime de créances et des dettes Posted: 2005
C Hamangiu , N Georgean
Annotated Civil Code , volume III
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
890
RANK
377,290
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies