Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Political Power and Reallocation of Value in the Internal Capital Market

Columbia Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2019 Last revised: 7 Sep 2021

Daniel Keum

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Date Written: November 1, 2018

Abstract

We examine how managers’ political power reallocates value across divisions in the internal capital market. By shifting the focus from financial to firm-specific non-financial resources that are difficult to evaluate and zero-sum in nature, we revise the prevailing view that a manager’s political power plays a significant yet contingent role only under financial constraint and weak governance. We instead characterize it as an intrinsic, inescapable determinant of how value is allocated in the internal capital market. We test our argument in the context of the corruption trials against a key executive at Samsung business group. By parsing each sentence of the legal opinion delivered during these trials, we identify a series of high-frequency shocks that unfold over the course of minutes and show that the loss of one manager’s political power can transfer resources and value to other divisions. This study presents a politics-based theory of internal value reallocation and highlights the methodological potential of using a quantitative case study that combines high-frequency stock market data with a detailed qualitative analysis to generate and test a new theory.

Keywords: Political Power, Internal Capital Market, Business Groups

JEL Classification: G31; G34

Suggested Citation:

Keum, Daniel, Managerial Political Power and Reallocation of Value in the Internal Capital Market (November 1, 2018). Columbia Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3314495 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3314495
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
133 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , A Kermani , J Kwak , T Mitton
The value of connections in turbulent times: Evidence from the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 2 , p. 368 - 391 Posted: 2016
G Allison
Essence of decision
Boston: Little, Brown & Co. Electronic copy Posted: 1971
H Almeida , S Y Park , M G Subrahmanyam , D Wolfenzon
The structure and formation of business groups: Evidence from Korean chaebols
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 99 , issue 2 , p. 447 - 475 Posted: 2011
M D Amore , M Bennedsen
The value of local political connections in a lowcorruption environment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 110 , issue 2 , p. 387 - 402 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,249
RANK
311,489
133 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies