Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation with Share Repurchases and Personal Taxes

33 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2019 Last revised: 16 Jan 2019

Ralf Diedrich

University of Leipzig

Stefan Dierkes

Georg August Universität

Johannes Sümpelmann

University of Göttingen

Date Written: January 11, 2019

Abstract

We derive a consistent valuation approach integrating the interdependent effects of cash dividends, share repurchases, and active debt management while considering personal taxes. Additionally, we identify effects of share repurchases on the cost of equity by deriving appropriate adjustment formulae. Furthermore, we run simulations to investigate the valuation differences caused by distribution of excess cash via cash dividends or share repurchases. The results show that share repurchases have a significant positive effect on equity market value.

Keywords: valuation, share repurchases, cash dividends, active debt management, cost of equity, equity market value, personal taxes

JEL Classification: G32, H20, M41

Suggested Citation:

Diedrich, Ralf and Dierkes, Stefan and Sümpelmann, Johannes, Valuation with Share Repurchases and Personal Taxes (January 11, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3314164 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3314164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
J ; Berk , P De Marzo
Corporate Finance Posted: 2017
H Bierman , R West
The Acquisition of Common Stock by the Corporate Issuer
Journal of Finance , volume 21 , p. 687 - 696 Posted: 1966
Crossref
H Bierman , R West
The Effect of Share Repurchases on the Value of the Firm: Some Further Comments
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 865 - 869 Posted: 1968
Crossref
F Black
The Dividend Puzzle
The Journal of Portfolio Management , volume 2 , p. 5 - 8 Posted: 1976
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,599
RANK
556,453
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies