Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overseeing the External Audit Function: Evidence from Audit Committees’ Reported Activities

60 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2019 Last revised: 22 Sep 2020

Brian Bratten

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Monika Causholli

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Valbona Sulcaj

University of Texas at El Paso - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: September 2020

Abstract

Although one of the most crucial responsibilities of audit committees is overseeing the audit process, we know very little about how audit committees fulfill this role and how their oversight impacts audit quality. Recently, in response to calls for more transparency, many firms have begun reporting their audit committees’ oversight activities. We create a composite measure that captures the extent of audit committees’ reported oversight over the external audit. We find that when firms’ audit committees report exerting strong oversight, they have higher audit quality as proxied by discretionary accruals, audit fees, the likelihood of meeting or beating earnings benchmarks, and restatements. We also find that the market reacts positively to reports indicating strong oversight, consistent with perceptions of higher audit quality. This study extends prior literature on audit committees by introducing a new comprehensive measure of audit committees’ reported oversight activities and sheds light on how these activities map into audit quality.

Keywords: Audit Committees, Audit Quality, Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: M41, M42, G18

Suggested Citation:

Bratten, Brian and Causholli, Monika and Sulcaj, Valbona, Overseeing the External Audit Function: Evidence from Audit Committees’ Reported Activities (September 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3314334 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3314334
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
L J Abbott , S Parker
Auditor selection and audit committee characteristics
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2000
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G G Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 88 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The Association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
The credibility revolution in empirical economics: How better research design is taking the con out of econometrics
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
975
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,943
RANK
54,219
3 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies