Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Identifying Board of Director Network Influence for Firm Characteristics

34 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2019 Last revised: 28 Mar 2019

Aparna Gupta

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI)

Abena Owusu

Montclair State University - School of Business; Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI)

Lei Zou

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI)

Date Written: March 26, 2019

Abstract

We utilize network analysis to evaluate the relationship between firms’ characteristics and board of director networks. In a sample of 20 largest firms by market value from the energy and the utility industrials, 10 from each sector, we cluster the firms by their firm-level characteristics, as well as develop a multiplex network of the firms’ board members consisting of two major layers, one for board members’ direct connections and another for their indirect connections. Additionally, 4 sub-layers of each major layer of the multiplex network represent corporate, non-profit organization, education and government/military connections between the board members. Each layer of the multiplex network is weighted so that their combined effect can be depicted as a single layered directors’ network. The weights of the multiplex directors’ network are learned by relating a firm’s director network characteristics with the firm cluster characteristics. We observe that director networks display significant connectivity at all multiplex network layers and firms belonging to the same cluster display similar director network characteristics, specifically enhanced by appropriate weighting of director network layers. The optimal value of network layer weights are found by optimizing the cohesion of firms in a cluster and the director network multiplex layers.

Keywords: network analysis, multiplex network, board of director, firm characteristics

JEL Classification: G3, D85, D83

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Aparna and Owusu, Abena Fosua and Zou, Lei, Identifying Board of Director Network Influence for Firm Characteristics (March 26, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3314257 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3314257
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,175
RANK
392,891
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies