Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEOs’ social media messages, perceived personality and M&A decisions

2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

64 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2019 Last revised: 27 Nov 2020

Evelyn Gay

Singapore University of Social Sciences

Bin Ke

National University of Singapore; Independent

Lin Qiu

Nanyang Technological University (NTU)

Charlotte Tianshu Qu

Seattle Pacific University - School of Business and Economics

Date Written: November 24, 2020

Abstract

We explore the possibility of using CEOs’ social media messages to measure their personality. We use independent observers to measure CEOs’ perceived personality based on the popular Big Five personality model. We use M&A initiations to validate the quality of our Big Five personality measures. We test our predictions using the CEOs’ verified Twitter accounts for publicly listed U.S. firms. We find that CEO’s openness to experience, one of the Big Five personality traits, is positively associated with the likelihood of M&A initiations and the effect of openness to experience is stronger for diversifying M&As than for non-diversifying M&As. We find no evidence that our tweet-based measures for CEO’s other Big Five personality attributes (extraversion, consciousness, agreeableness, and neuroticism) are associated with M&A outcomes as predicted. Our results suggest that CEOs’ social media messages contain some useful information about their personality that can be used to better understand publicly listed firms’ strategic decisions.

Keywords: social media; Twitter; personality; M&As

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Gay, Evelyn and Ke, Bin and Qiu, Lin and Qu, Charlotte Tianshu, CEOs’ social media messages, perceived personality and M&A decisions (November 24, 2020). 2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3315788 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3315788
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
M Amelang , P Borkenau
Uberdie faktorielle Struktur und externe Validitat einiger Fragebogen-Skalen zur Erfassung von Diraensionen der Extraversion und emotionalen Labilitat [On the factor structure and external validity of some questionnaire scales measuring dimensions of extraversion and neuroticism Posted: 1982
G Andrade , M Mitchell , E Stafford
New evidence and perspectives on mergers?
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M C Ashton , K Lee , S V Paunonen
What is the central feature of extraversion? Social attention versus reward sensitivity
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 245 - 252 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M D Back , J M Stopfer , S Vazire , S Gaddis , S C Schmukle , B Egloff , S D Gosling
Facebook profiles reflect actual personality, not self-idealization
Psychological Science , volume 21 , p. 372 - 374 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
467
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,474
RANK
140,836
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies