Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Clawback Adoption on Executive Cash Compensation Structure

2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

54 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2019

Hanni Liu

Manhattan College

Harrison Liu

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: January 14, 2019

Abstract

Prior research suggests an asymmetric relation between CEO cash compensation and firm performance as measured by market-adjusted stock returns. As discussed by Leone et al. (2006), the underlying rationale for this asymmetry is the difficulty in the ex post settling- up of cash compensation. We examine a later period (2007-2014) and find asymmetry between cash compensation (for CEOs and CFOs) and firm performance as measured by market-adjusted stock returns as well as accounting-based measures. Further, we find that clawback adoption is followed by reduced asymmetry in this relation, a finding consistent with clawback’s ex post settling-up characteristics. We contribute to the literature by showing that clawback adoption has had a favorable impact on the structure of CEO/CFO compensation consistent with Holmstrom (1979).

Keywords: Clawback, Executive Compensation, Governance

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Hanni and Liu, Harrison and Raman, K. K., The Impact of Clawback Adoption on Executive Cash Compensation Structure (January 14, 2019). 2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3315571 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3315571
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
N Addy , X Chu , T Yoder
Voluntary adoption of clawback provisions, corporate governance, and interlock effects
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 33 , p. 167 - 189 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Ilona Babenko , Benjamin Bennett , John M. Bizjak , Jeffrey L. Coles
Clawback Provisions
Pages: 60 Posted: 19 Mar 2012 Last revised: 16 Jul 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Barclay , D Gode , S P Kothari
Measuring delivered performance
Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics , volume 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,556
RANK
484,103
1 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies