Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Analysis of Widespread Adoption of CSR and Sustainability Reporting Standards

170 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2019

Hans Bonde Christensen

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Luzi Hail

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Christian Leuz

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Leibniz Institute SAFE; CESifo Research Network; Center for Financial Studies (CFS)

Date Written: November 30, 2018

Abstract

This report provides an economic analysis for a widespread adoption of corporate social responsibility (or sustainability) disclosure and reporting standards in the United States. It is based on an extensive review of the academic literature in accounting, economics, finance, and management. We discuss possible economic consequences, including capital-market effects, real effects in firm behavior, and implementation issues related to the adoption of CSR standards. The report focuses on the economic effects of standards for disclosure and reporting, not on the economic effects of CSR activities and policies themselves. Our analysis yields a number of insights that are relevant to the current debate on CSR and sustainability reporting standards.

Keywords: Accounting, Regulation, SASB, GRI, Standard setting, Mandatory disclosure, Sustainability, CSR, Environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors

JEL Classification: F30, G30, K20, L21, M14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Hans Bonde and Hail, Luzi and Leuz, Christian, Economic Analysis of Widespread Adoption of CSR and Sustainability Reporting Standards (November 30, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3315673 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3315673
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
365 References
B Ackers , N S Eccles
Mandatory corporate social responsibility assurance practices: The case of King III in South Africa
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 515 - 550 Posted: 2015
C A Adams , P Mcnicholas
Making a difference: Sustainability reporting, accountability and organisational change
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 382 - 402 Posted: 2007
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Crossref
W Aerts , D Cormier
Media legitimacy and corporate environmental communication. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,002
ABSTRACT VIEWS
19,083
RANK
3,055
42 Citations
365 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies