Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Earnings Smoothing and Managerial Compensation Incentives

2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

33 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2019

Changling Chen

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Qi Rachel Tang

Grenoble Ecole de Management

Li Yao

Concordia University, Quebec

Date Written: January 14, 2019

Abstract

We provide empirical evidence that managers smooth earnings using discretionary R&D spending (i.e., real smoothing) when managerial compensation packages contain high risk-taking incentives. Specifically, we find that real smoothing is related to both the sensitivity of executive wealth to a unit change in stock price volatility (vega, capturing executives’ incentive of increasing R&D investment of high risk in nature) and the sensitivity of executive wealth to a unit change in stock price (delta, capturing executives’ incentive of preserving stock price possibly through reducing R&D investment). Given the empirical regularity of the extremely high correlation between vega and delta, we use Vega-to-Delta ratio to capture the net risk-taking incentive of executives, and find evidence supporting our hypothesis that the real smoothing is less for firms whose executives have high risk-taking incentives driven by their option compensations.

Keywords: Real earnings management; Executive compensation; Stock options; Risk taking

JEL Classification: M41; M52

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Changling and Tang, Qi Rachel and Yao, Li, Real Earnings Smoothing and Managerial Compensation Incentives (January 14, 2019). 2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3315652
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
315
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,480
RANK
219,707
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies