Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Multi-Layer Governance on Bank Risk Disclosure in Emerging Markets: The Case of Middle East and North Africa

Elamer, A.A., Ntim, C.G., Abdou, H.A., Zalata, A., & Elmagrhi, M. (2019) ‘The Impact of Multi-Layer Governance on Bank Risk Disclosure in Emerging Markets: The Case of Middle East and North Africa’, Accounting Forum, Forthcoming (Accepted 14th January 2019).

46 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2019

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Hussein A. Abdou

Northumbria University; Department of Management, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Alaa Zalata

University of Southampton - Southampton Business School

Mohamed Elmagrhi

University of Huddersfield, Huddersfield Business School, Queensgate, Huddersfield, HD1 3DH; Swansea University, School of Management; University of Huddersfield - Business School

Date Written: January 14, 2019

Abstract

This study examines the impact of multi-layer governance mechanisms on the level of bank risk disclosure. Using a large dataset from 14 Middle East and North Africa (MENA) countries over a period of 8 years, our findings are three-fold. First, our results suggest that the presence of a Sharia supervisory board is positively associated with the level of risk disclosure. Second and at the bank-level, we find that ownership structures have a positive effect on the level of risk disclosure. At the country-level, our evidence suggests that control of corruption has a positive effect on the level of bank risk disclosure. Our study is, therefore, a major departure from much of the existing accounting literature that offers new crucial insights that show that firms’ disclosure choices are not mainly shaped by firm-level (internal) governance arrangements, but also country-level (external) governance and religious factors. Our findings have important implications for corporate boards, investors, regulatory authorities, standards-setters and governments relating to the development, implementation and enforcement of corporate and national governance standards.

Keywords: Risk Disclosure; Corporate Governance; Sharia Supervisory Board; Country Governance; MENA Banks; Resource dependence theory

JEL Classification: G21, G32, G34, G38, M48

Suggested Citation:

Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Ntim, Collins G. and Abdou, Hussein A. and Zalata, Alaa and Elmagrhi, Mohamed and Elmagrhi, Mohamed, The Impact of Multi-Layer Governance on Bank Risk Disclosure in Emerging Markets: The Case of Middle East and North Africa (January 14, 2019). Elamer, A.A., Ntim, C.G., Abdou, H.A., Zalata, A., & Elmagrhi, M. (2019) ‘The Impact of Multi-Layer Governance on Bank Risk Disclosure in Emerging Markets: The Case of Middle East and North Africa’, Accounting Forum, Forthcoming (Accepted 14th January 2019)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3315261
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
113 References
P Abedifar , P Molyneux , A Tarazi
Risk in Islamic banking
Review of Finance , volume 17 , p. 2035 - 2096 Posted: 2013
Crossref
P Abedifar , P Giudici , S Q Hashem
Heterogeneous market structure and systemic risk: Evidence from dual banking systems
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 33 , p. 96 - 119 Posted: 2017
Crossref
S Abraham , P Cox
Analysing the determinants of narrative risk information in UK FTSE 100 annual reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 227 - 248 Posted: 2007
Crossref
W M Al-Bassam , C G Ntim
The effect of Islamic values on voluntary corporate governance disclosure: The case of Saudi listed firms
Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business Research , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 182 - 202 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,797
RANK
588,270
8 Citations
113 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies