Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Outside Director Social Network Centrality and Turnover Before Stock Performance Crash: A Friend in Need?

70 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2019 Last revised: 24 Aug 2022

Siyuan Li

College of William & Mary

Charlotte Tianshu Qu

Seattle Pacific University - School of Business and Economics

Y. Julia Yu

University of Virginia

Date Written: August 21, 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates the effect of social connections on outside director turnover before stock performance crashes. We find that outside directors who are more connected with managers through social ties are more likely to leave the firm before a crash. The positive association between turnover and outside director connectedness is robust to different model specifications, measures of crashes and turnovers, and sample selection criteria. Moreover, we document that this positive association is moderated by the concentration of the outside directors’ social capital within the current firm and the availability of alternative information channels to the outside directors. Our findings contribute to the literature on the supply side incentives of outside directors by revealing information sharing through social connections as a mechanism through which outside directors assess their firms’ future performance and make turnover decisions before crashes.

Keywords: Social connections; network centrality; outside director turnover; stock performance crashes

Suggested Citation:

Li, Siyuan and Qu, Charlotte Tianshu and Yu, Yingri Julia, Outside Director Social Network Centrality and Turnover Before Stock Performance Crash: A Friend in Need? (August 21, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3315782 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3315782
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Do directors perform for pay?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 171 Posted: 2008
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
K R Ahern , A K Dittmar
The changing of the boards: The impact on firm valuation of mandated female board representation
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,316
RANK
448,944
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies