Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrated Reporting in UK Higher Education Institutions

Adhikariparajul, M., Hassan, A., Fletcher, M., & Elamer, A.A. (2019) ‘Integrated Reporting in UK Higher Education Institutions’, Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal, (Accepted 14th January 2019), Forthcoming.

56 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2019

Mahalaxmi Adhikariparajuli

University of the West of Scotland

Abeer Hassan

University of West of Scotland

Mary Fletcher

University of Strathclyde - Department of Accounting and Finance; University of the West of Scotland

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Date Written: January 14, 2019

Abstract

Purpose – This paper examines trends in the content of reporting within 135 UK Higher Education Institutions (HEIs). It explores the extent to which Integrated Reporting (IR) content elements, reflecting integrated thinking, are disclosed voluntarily and whether HEI specific features influence the resulting disclosures.

Design/methodology/approach – Existing IR guidelines given by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and the adoption of content analysis have provided the opportunity to examine the trend and extent of IR content elements associated in HEI corporate reports. The evidence was obtained from 405 UK HEI annual reports covering the period 2014-2016.
Findings-The results indicate a significant increase in the number of IR content elements embedded in HEI annual reports. The HEI specific characteristics examined, such as a) the establishment of HEI (before or after 1992), b) adoption of IR framework and c) size of HEI, are all significantly and positively associated with IR content elements disclosure. This paper argues that institutional theory, isomorphism and isopraxism are relevant for explaining the changes in the contents of HEI annual reports. The findings also suggest that universities are beginning to adopt an integrated thinking approach to the reporting of their activities.

Limitations – The study is based on IR content elements only and could be extended to include the fundamental concepts and basic principles of the IR framework. There are other factors that have a potentially crucial influence on HEI core activities (such as teaching and learning research and internationalisation) which have been omitted from this study.

Practical implications – The findings will allow policymakers to evaluate the extent to which integrated thinking is taking place and influencing the UK HEI sector in the selection and presentation of information. A further implication of the findings is that an appropriate a sector-wide enforcement and compliance body, for instance, the British Universities Finance Directors Group (BUFDG), may consider developing voluntary IR guidance in a clear, consistent, concise and comparable format. Also, it may pursue regulatory support for this guidance. In doing so, it may monitor the compliance and disclosure levels of appropriate IR requirements. Within such a framework, IR could be used to assist HEIs to make more sustainable choices and allow stakeholders to better understand aspects of HEI performance.

Social implications – The research has implications for society within and beyond the unique UK HEI sector. Universities are places of advanced thinking and can lead the way for other sectors by demonstrating the potential of integrated thinking to create a cohesive wide-ranging discourse and create engagement among stakeholder groups. Specifically, IR builds on the strong points of accounting, for instance, robust quantitative evidence collecting, relevance, reliability, materiality, comparability and assurability, to explain the sustainability discourse into a ‘‘language’’ logical to HEIs organisational decision-makers. Consequently, IR may generate better visibility and knowledge of the financial values of exploiting capitals (financial, intellectual, human, manufactured, social, and natural) and offer a multifaceted approach to reassess HEIs organisational performance in various sectors that support the growth of integrated thinking.

Originality/ value – This is the first known study to explore HEI characteristics and link them with the level of voluntary IR content elements disclosed in UK HEIs.


Keywords: Integrated Reporting, Higher Education Institutions, Content analysis, Institutional theory

Suggested Citation:

Adhikariparajuli, Mahalaxmi and Hassan, Abeer and Fletcher, Mary and Fletcher, Mary and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed, Integrated Reporting in UK Higher Education Institutions (January 14, 2019). Adhikariparajul, M., Hassan, A., Fletcher, M., & Elamer, A.A. (2019) ‘Integrated Reporting in UK Higher Education Institutions’, Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal, (Accepted 14th January 2019), Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3315407
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
S Abed , B Al-Najjar , C Roberts
Measuring annual report narratives disclosure: Empirical evidence from forward-looking information in the UK prior to the financial crisis
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 31 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 338 - 361 Posted: 2016
I Abeysekera
A template for integrated reporting
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 227 - 245 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R Aburaya
The relationship between corporate governance and environmental disclosure: UK evidence. Doctoral dissertation Posted: 2012-01
C Adams
Debate: Integrated reporting and accounting for suitable development across generations by universities
Public Money & Management , volume 38 , issue 5 , p. 325 - 327 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
387
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,455
RANK
175,011
9 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies