Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Related Party Transactions and Earnings Management: An Empirical Examination of Selected Companies in India

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVII, No. 2, April 2018, pp. 36-50

Posted: 27 Jan 2019

Abdul Rasheed

Mangalore University - PG Department of Commerce

T. Mallikarjunappa

Mangalore University

Date Written: April 2018

Abstract

A number of publicized accounting frauds around the world, such as Satyam fraud (India), Enron failure (USA), Tyco failure (Ireland), show that firms use Related Party Transactions (RPTs) to manage earnings for financial reporting purposes or to divert firms’ resources to their controlling shareholders at the expense of minority shareholders. This study aims to explore the relationship between RPTs and earnings management practices of selected companies in India. The amount of discretionary accruals derived from modified Jones models (Dechow et al., 1995) is used as a proxy to measure earnings management. Based on 218 firm-year observations taken from BSE-200 index based companies for the financial year 2014 and 2015, this study finds that there is a statistically significant relationship between RPTs and earnings management. The findings also reveal that the effect of new RPT regulations in mitigating earnings management is not significant.

Suggested Citation:

Rasheed, Abdul and Mallikarjunappa, T., Related Party Transactions and Earnings Management: An Empirical Examination of Selected Companies in India (April 2018). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVII, No. 2, April 2018, pp. 36-50, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3316690
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
899
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies