Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Chair-CEO Trust and Firm Performance

2019 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference

51 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2019

Jiayi Zheng

University of Queensland - Business School

Yushu Zhu

University of Queensland - Business School

Date Written: January 15, 2019

Abstract

This study assesses whether individual-level trust between the board chair and the CEO affects firm performance. We find that chair-CEO trust is positively associated with firm performance. Additional tests suggest the relationship between trust and firm performance is causal, with more pronounced effects observed for firms with greater advisory needs (more diversified firms) and boards that are able to deliver high-quality advice (firms with higher ratios of busy directors). This trust promotes a strong board process that consequently leads to value-adding innovation and merger and acquisition decisions. Further, this trust relationship can moderate the negative effect on firm performance during CEO turnovers.

Keywords: social trust, advisory role, firm performance, merger and acquisition, corporate innovation.

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G41

Suggested Citation:

Zheng, Jiayi and Zhu, Yushu, Chair-CEO Trust and Firm Performance (January 15, 2019). 2019 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3316059 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3316059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,904
RANK
396,898
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies