Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does CEO Gender Matter at Financial Institutions? Evidence from Credit Union CEO Transitions

72 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2019 Last revised: 20 Dec 2019

Jordan van Rijn

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Agricultural and Applied Economics

Date Written: November 27, 2019

Abstract

Previous studies of risk management and overconfidence at firms and financial institutions suggest that female CEOs engage in more conservative risk management practices relative to male CEOs, and less aggressive growth and acquisition behavior. However, these studies are limited by a lack of variation in CEO gender, as only 5% of commercial bank CEOs and 6% of Fortune 500 company CEOs are female. We examine gender differences in risk management and overconfidence in the distinct context of nonprofit financial cooperatives (“credit unions”), in which a majority (52%) of CEOs are female. Do observed gender differences in risk preferences and overconfidence hold under such circumstances? We utilize a unique dataset with 23 years of credit union quarterly data and CEO gender to employ two-way quarter and institution fixed effects and event study frameworks to focus on variation within credit unions that experience a CEO transition with a corresponding change in the gender of the CEO. The event study methodology allows us to thoroughly explore pre-CEO transition trends and parallel trends to account for potential selection bias. While gender differences in indicators of risk management are in the expected direction, few are statistically significant, and none are economically meaningful. The results suggest that practical differences in observable risk management are negligible among credit union CEOs. However, we do find statistically significant and large gender differences in credit union growth: male-led credit unions grow 2.9% larger in terms of memberships and 5.9% larger in terms of loans. They also expand their fields of membership to have 8.2% more potential members, execute 2.8% more merger-acquisitions, and increase their marketing expense by 7.5% relative to female-led credit unions. Nonetheless, there are no significant gender differences in credit union earnings. We argue that the results are consistent with gender differences in overconfidence but not risk aversion. The findings highlight the importance of context when evaluating gender differences in risk management and performance.

Keywords: Gender, risk management, financial institutions, overconfidence

JEL Classification: G21, J16, G32

Suggested Citation:

van Rijn, Jordan, Does CEO Gender Matter at Financial Institutions? Evidence from Credit Union CEO Transitions (November 27, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3316280 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3316280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
S M Adams , A Gupta , J D Leeth
Are female executives over-represented in precarious leadership positions
British Journal of Management , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2009
Crossref
N Aktas , C Louca , D Petmezas
CEO overconfidence and the value of corporate cash holdings
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 54 , p. 85 - 106 Posted: 2019
Crossref
M D Amore , O Garofalo
Executive gender, competitive pressures, and corporate performance
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 131 , p. 308 - 327 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J S Ashby , M K Ryan , S A Haslam
Legal work and the glass cliff: Evidence that women are preferentially selected to lead problematic cases
Wm. & Mary J. Women & L , volume 13 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,197
RANK
303,587
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies