Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Confusion Between the CEO and Chairman: Empirical Evidence of Effects on Bank Risk and Performance

36 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2019

Jonathan N. Crook

University of Edinburgh - Business School

Sean Harkin

University of Edinburgh - Edinburgh Business School

Davide Salvatore Mare

World Bank - Research Department; University of Edinburgh - Business School

Date Written: October 1, 2018

Abstract

We investigate whether factors beyond agency conflict are important in bank governance. Specifically, we examine the possibility that confusion and overlap between the roles of CEO and Chairman have important effects on bank risk and return. Using a new data set for UK banks over the period 2003-2012 and controlling for risk-return simultaneity we find that having a Joint CEO-Chairman lowers risk because it alleviates confusion between roles. We also document that oversight by a Remuneration Committee and Non-Executive Directors (NEDs) lowers the probability of bank failure, indicating that empowering an independent Chairman has different effects from empowering independent NEDs. Overall, our results show the importance of accounting for the heterogeneity in actors and behaviours within banks.

Keywords: bank, risk, performance, ownership, simultaneous equations

JEL Classification: C30, G21, G28, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Crook, Jonathan N. and Harkin, Sean and Mare, Davide Salvatore and Mare, Davide Salvatore, Confusion Between the CEO and Chairman: Empirical Evidence of Effects on Bank Risk and Performance (October 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3317981 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3317981
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,241
RANK
580,030
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies