Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Compliance With Disclosure Requirements of IFRS 4: Evidence From Quoted Insurance Companies in Nigeria

20 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2019

Muideen Adeseye Awodiran

Afe Babalola University

Date Written: January 17, 2018

Abstract

Publicly quoted companies are expected to fully comply with disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) during the preparation and presentation of their financial reports. However, this is far from what is obtainable in real situation; as evident in the existing literature. Hence, this study examined the determinants of compliance with disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS 4 - Insurance contracts) among quoted insurance companies in Nigeria; the study further examined the influence of four company attributes (leverage, profitability, liquidity, and size) on the extent of compliance. With the aid of a self-constructed compliance checklist, an index was derived to quantify the level of compliance with disclosure requirement of IFRS 4; after applying the checklist to the 2012-2014 annual reports of sample companies. The study used panel regression technique to examine the influence of the four company attributes on the extent of compliance. The results showed an aggregate mean compliance of 80.38% to IFRS 4 disclosure requirements. A significant positive relationship was found between the level of compliance and company liquidity, and profitability (both at 5% level of significance), while a significant negative relationship was found between company leverage and extent of compliance (at 10% significance level). The study recommended among others that; regulators’ compliance enforcement and monitoring mechanism be improved upon, as well as exercising great caution and put in more attention while assessing the disclosure compliance of highly leveraged companies.

Keywords: Determinants, Compliance, Disclosure Requirements, IFRS 4

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Awodiran, Muideen Adeseye, Determinants of Compliance With Disclosure Requirements of IFRS 4: Evidence From Quoted Insurance Companies in Nigeria (January 17, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3317812 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3317812
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
M Akhtaruddin
Corporate Mandatory Disclosure Practices in Bangladesh
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 40 , p. 399 - 422 Posted: 2005
Crossref
B Al-Shammari , P Brown , A Tarca
An Investigation of Compliance with International Accounting Standards by Listed Companies in the Gulf Co-Operation Council Member States
International Journal of Accounting , volume 43 , issue 4 , p. 425 - 447 Posted: 2008
Crossref
B Al-Shammari
Compliance with International Accounting Standards by Listed Companies in Gulf Cooperation Council Member States: An Empirical Study. A Thesis presented to UWA Business School Posted: 2005
B Al-Shammari
Factors Influencing the Extent of Mandatory Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards: The Case of Kuwaiti Listed Companies
Journal of International Business and Economics , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 11 - 31 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,372
RANK
255,414
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies