Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Can Management Control Systems Contribute to Acquisition Failure? A True Story

37 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2019

karine Pelletier

Université de Sherbrooke

Date Written: January 19, 2019

Abstract

The purpose of the study is to identify what can go so wrong from the time managers decide to make an important acquisition to the time they actually liquidate their assets. When managers decide to invest in a certain project, they can normally justify its plus-value (financial and/or non-financial) to the shareholders. If not, there would be no point of investing. Therefore, how come an important investment can rapidly become a nightmare? Here, we focused on different theories that relate to managerial accounting to put light on what can go wrong from a management accounting perspective. We evaluated a specific case of acquisition/liquidation and conducted interviews to answer our research questions. We found that not considering the acquired firm control systems is definitely part of the acquisition failure. On the other side, strong post-acquisition controls can reduce losses of money and the acquiring firm wins at doing tight post-acquisition controls.

Keywords: Management control system, mergers and acquisitions, Hubris Theory

JEL Classification: M41, M14, M40

Suggested Citation:

Pelletier, karine, How Can Management Control Systems Contribute to Acquisition Failure? A True Story (January 19, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3318732 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3318732
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Booz
Diversification: A Survey of European Chief Executives Posted: 1985
L J Bourgeois
On the measurement of organizational slack
Academy of Management Review , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 39 Posted: 1981
Crossref
R Brühl , M Gosselin , M Hanzlick , S Hoozée
Working Paper). Management control systems and crosscultural research: a review of 30 years of empirical research
S Cartwright , C L Cooper
The role of culture compatibility in successful organizational marriage
The Academy of Management Executive , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 57 - 57 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
756
RANK
584,078
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies