Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carbon Disclosure, Emission Intensity and Cost of Equity Capital: Multi-Country Evidence

2019 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference

39 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2019 Last revised: 7 Mar 2019

Binh Bui

Victoria University of Wellington

Olayinka Moses

Victoria University of Wellington, Victoria Business School

Noor Houqe

School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 18, 2019

Abstract

This study examines the joint effect of carbon disclosure and greenhouse gas (GHG) emission on firms implied cost of equity capital (COC). Based on 4,655 firm-year observations across 34 countries, we find firms’ GHG emission intensity to be positively associated with COC. However, we find also that the penalty linked with higher COC is moderated by extensive carbon disclosure. We provide evidence that the extent of carbon disclosure helps reduce the premium required by investors to compensate for poor carbon performance. Our study provides insight to policymakers, investors and managers on the combined effect of carbon disclosure, and emission intensity.

Keywords: Carbon Disclosure, Emission Intensity, Greenhouse Gas (GHG), Cost of Equity Capital

Suggested Citation:

Bui, Binh and Moses, Olayinka and Houqe, Muhammad Nurul, Carbon Disclosure, Emission Intensity and Cost of Equity Capital: Multi-Country Evidence (January 18, 2019). 2019 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3318011 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3318011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Ashley Ding , Dan Daugaard , Martina K. Linnenluecke
The Future Trajectory for Environmental Finance: Planetary Boundaries and Environmental, Social and Governance Analysis
Accounting & Finance, Vol. 60, Issue 1, pp. 3-14, 2020 · 12 Pages · Posted: 19 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 1
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
292
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,506
RANK
238,367
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies