Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Market Value the Accounting Expertise of Chief Financial Officers? Evidence from the Market Value of Cash Holdings

Journal of Corporate Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming

Posted: 22 Jan 2019 Last revised: 27 Dec 2022

Li Gao

State University of New York at New Paltz

Jay Junghun Lee

University of Massachusetts Boston

Yong-Chul Shin

University of Massachusetts Boston

Date Written: September 19, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates whether and how equity investors value the accounting expertise of chief financial officers (CFOs) in managing cash assets. Using hand-collected CFO data of S&P 1500 firms from 1999 to 2015, we find that the stock market places a higher value on cash assets when firms replace a non-accountant CFO with an accountant CFO. Specifically, the market value of an additional dollar of cash increases by 92 cents following such CFO turnovers. Moreover, we find that the positive effect of CFOs’ accounting backgrounds on the market value of cash is particularly evident for firms in low growth industries and firms with weak corporate governance. Our evidence highlights efficient cash management as an important channel through which accountant CFOs contribute to firm value.

Keywords: accounting expertise, cash management, chief financial officers

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Li and Lee, Jay Junghun and Shin, Yong-Chul, Does the Market Value the Accounting Expertise of Chief Financial Officers? Evidence from the Market Value of Cash Holdings (September 19, 2022). Journal of Corporate Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3318755
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
196
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies