Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive-Employee Pay Gap and Academic Directors – A Chinese Study

2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

34 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2019 Last revised: 1 Apr 2019

Hong Fan

Saint Mary's University, Canada

Xiaofei Song

Saint Mary's University

Lei Zhou

Anhui University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: January 18, 2019

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of professor-directors on the executive-employee pay gap in public Chinese firms. University professors are generally believed to have higher standards of ethical and social responsibility by the public. Consistent with this view, we find there is a negative relationship between the executive-employee pay gap and the presence of professor-directors on board. This result is mainly driven by administrative professor directors. The strong political connections of the administrative professor-directors give them both the additional incentive and power to advocate for an executive-employee pay gap reduction. Empirical evidence seems to suggest that administrative professor-directors are successful in promoting employee pay while curbing executive compensation hikes, resulting a smaller executive-employee pay gap. On the other hand, the presence of non-administrative professor directors is associated with both higher executive compensation and higher employee pay, resulting in little change in the pay gap.

Keywords: Executive-employee pay gap, professor directors, administrative professor-directors

JEL Classification: M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Fan, Hong and Song, Xiaofei and Zhou, Lei, Executive-Employee Pay Gap and Academic Directors – A Chinese Study (January 18, 2019). 2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3318236
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
E I Altman
Predicting financial distress of companies: revisiting the Z-score and ZETA models. Stern School of Business , p. 9 - 12 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , K Chernova
Absolute income, relative income, and happiness
Social Indicators Research , volume 88 , issue 3 , p. 497 - 529 Posted: 2008
Crossref
E Baumgarten
Ethics in the academic profession: A Socratic view
The Journal of Higher Education , volume 53 , issue 3 , p. 282 - 295 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Lucian A. Bebchuk , Jesse M. Fried
Executive Compensation at Fannie Mae: A Case Study of Perverse Incentives, Nonperformance Pay, and Camouflage
Journal of Corporation Law, Vol. 30, No. 4, pp. 807-822, 2005, UC Berkeley Public Law Research Paper No. 653125, Harvard Law and Economics Discussion Paper No. 505, February 2005 Pages: 15 Posted: 2 Feb 2005 Last revised: 5 May 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,035
RANK
549,043
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies