Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Earnings Management: A Banking Industry Perspective

60 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2019

Xueqi Bai

Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC)

Teresa Chu

University of Macau, Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 25, 2018

Abstract

This paper addresses interrelation of corporate governance mechanism and income-increasing earnings management from a banking perspective. Specifically, it investigates the impact of Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code (measured by board and audit committee characteristics) on earnings management, using a sample of 28 banks listed in Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Market from 2005 to 2016. By using two earnings management proxies, namely small positive net income (SPOS) and loan loss provisions (LLP), applying logit and linear regression models respectively, this study documents that increasing number of committees under board of directors (NOCOM) and proportion of audit experts on audit committee (AUEXP) will decrease the tendency as well as the magnitude of upward earnings management in banks listed in Hong Kong. The paper adds to the body of research on corporate governance and earnings management in the East Asian region and help regulators to find out the effectiveness of Corporate Governance Code in constraining opportunistic behavior in the banking industry.


Keywords: Hong Kong Listed Banks, Upward Earnings Management, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Bai, Xueqi and Chu, Teresa, Corporate Governance and Earnings Management: A Banking Industry Perspective (June 25, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3318144 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3318144
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Citic China , Bank
HK Agricultural Bank of China Limited Posted: 1111
HK Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited
HK Standard Chartered Holdings Limited Posted: 2016
HK Hui Shang Bank
HK Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank Posted: 2016
HK Bank of China Limited
China Merchants Bank Company Limited Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,647
RANK
344,140
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies