Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Disclosures and Governance Practices Reduce Bank Risk? Evidence from Bangladesh

25 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2019

Niluthpaul Sarker

Jagannath University

Shamsun Nahar

Jagannath University

Date Written: January 10, 2019

Abstract

The scenario of the banking sector is articulated by the theoretical background backed up by practical evidences relying on panel data of thirty-two (32) commercial banks for the period of 2006-2016. The study addressed the problem of endogeneity, heterokedasticity and auto-correlation by selecting the two-stage-least-square (2SLS) method in data analysis. In fact, the study explores its area of concentration in the banking sector and developed models based on bank risk, disclosures, and corporate governance in the developing country context. It is true that good governance can ensure bank transparency and market stability. The study revealed that banks disclosures and corporate governance have a significant effect on bank risk-taking behavior and also found a reciprocal effect in the case of disclosure model and governance model.

Keywords: Bank Risk; Corporate Governance; Quantitative Methods; Panel Data; Bangladesh

JEL Classification: C12, C33

Suggested Citation:

Sarker, Niluthpaul and Nahar, Shamsun, Do Disclosures and Governance Practices Reduce Bank Risk? Evidence from Bangladesh (January 10, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3318833 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3318833
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
M K Agoraki , M D Delis , F &amp;pasiouras
Regulations, competition and bank risktaking in transition countries
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 7 , p. 38 - 48 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Akhtaruddin
Corporate mandatory disclosure practices in Bangladesh
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 399 - 422 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Crossref
M Al-Akra , Eddie , Ali Ia
The influence of the introduction of accounting disclosure regulation on mandatory disclosure compliance: evidence from Jordan
The British Accounting Review , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 170 - 186 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,057
RANK
778,745
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies