Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Tax Advisors and Corrupt Tax Auditors on Taxpayer Compliance

2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

36 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2019 Last revised: 16 May 2019

Viswanath Trivedi

Schulich School of Business, York University

Amin Mawani

York University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 18, 2019

Abstract

We examine the impact on taxpayer compliance of corrupt auditors seeking bribes in the form of a percentage of taxes payable. The first experiment examines a setting where a taxpayer can choose to report higher income in the presence of a corrupt auditor to reduce the bribe on the under-reported income. The taxpayer can also under-report income since the bribe is always set up to be less than the penalty. Our experimental results show that the presence of a corrupt auditor demanding bribes at levels up to the legally sanctioned penalty for mis-reporting reduces overall taxpayer compliance.

The second experiment examines whether the involvement of a professional tax advisor increases or decreases the percentage of income reported compared to the baseline compliance in the presence of a corrupt tax auditor. If the tax advisor serves more as a gatekeeper and moral authority, the percentage of income reported by the taxpayer client could increase. However, if the tax advisor serves to provide legitimacy to the noncompliant behavior of the taxpayer, then the percentage of income reported by the taxpayer client could decrease. Our experimental results show that in the absence of corrupt auditors, tax advisors are better at improving taxpayer compliance.

Keywords: Corrupt Tax Auditors, Tax Professionals, Experimental Economics

JEL Classification: H26, C91

Suggested Citation:

Trivedi, Viswanath and Mawani, Amin, Impact of Tax Advisors and Corrupt Tax Auditors on Taxpayer Compliance (January 18, 2019). 2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3318267 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3318267
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
J Alm
Measuring, explaining, and controlling tax evasion: Lessons from theory, experiments, and field studies
International Tax Public Finance , volume 19 , p. 54 - 77 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Alm J Jackson , B R Mckee , M
An experimental investigation of indirect audit effects on individual compliance behavior Posted: 2004
I Amundsen
Political corruption: An introduction to the issues Posted: 1999
R A Barreto , Alm , J
Corruption, optimal taxation, and growth
Public Finance Review , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 207 - 240 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Amin Mawani
Collusive vs. coercively corrupt tax auditors and their impact on tax compliance
Mawani, A. and Trivedi, V.U. “Collusive vs. Coercively Corrupt Tax Auditors and their Impact on Tax Compliance” Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Finance, Vol 30, June 2021, · 12 Pages · Posted: 18 Nov 2021 · Downloads: 106
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
295
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,571
RANK
235,846
1 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies