Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Share Repurchases and Accounting Conservatism

Lobo, G. J., Robin, A., & Wu, K. (2019). Share repurchases and accounting conservatism. Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, 1-35.

Posted: 22 Jan 2019 Last revised: 5 Sep 2019

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Ashok Robin

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) - E. Philip Saunders College of Business

Kean Wu

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) - Saunders College of Business

Date Written: January 18, 2019

Abstract

The prior literature indicates that financial policy (e.g., payout policy) as well as accounting policy (e.g., conservatism) can be used to address incentive problems in firms but finds mixed evidence. We conjecture that stock repurchases, an increasingly popular form of payout, and conservatism are potential mechanisms to counter managerial propensity to engage in overinvestment using free cash flows. Consequently, we expect a negative relation between repurchases and conservatism as well as a stronger negative relation between these two mechanisms in firms with high levels of free cash flows. We find results consistent with these expectations. By contrast, we find a weaker negative relation between repurchases and conservatism when CEO tenure is higher, which confirms that more entrenched CEOs have less incentives to solve the overinvestment problem.

Keywords: Share repurchase, Accounting conservatism, Agency problem, Corporate governance

JEL Classification: D82, G14, G35, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lobo, Gerald J. and Robin, Ashok and Wu, Kean, Share Repurchases and Accounting Conservatism (January 18, 2019). Lobo, G. J., Robin, A., & Wu, K. (2019). Share repurchases and accounting conservatism. Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, 1-35., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3318747 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3318747
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
945
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies