Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What’s Good for You is Good for Me: The Effect of CEO Inside Debt on the Cost of Equity

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

64 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2019 Last revised: 25 Aug 2020

Carl Hsin-han Shen

Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Hao Zhang

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) - Saunders College of Business

Date Written: January 15, 2019

Abstract

We find an overall negative relation between CEO inside debt holdings and the cost of equity capital. Such a negative relation holds in an instrumental-variable analysis, a test using changes in variables due to CEO turnover events, a test using seasoned equity offering (SEO) underpricing as an alternate cost of equity measure, and a difference-in-differences test based on the implementation of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A Final Regulations. Additionally, the negative relation between inside debt and the cost of equity is nonlinear, suggesting the existence of optimal inside debt compensation that can minimize cost of capital. The negative relation is less pronounced in firms with pre-funded executive pension plans and in firms that provide executives with the pension lump-sum option. We also provide evidence that inside debt lowers the cost of equity more for excessively levered firms, and inside debt reduces the cost of equity by constraining potential fraudulent behaviors in firms that are located far away from the SEC. Collectively, these findings suggest that shareholders value the beneficial role of CEO debt-like compensation in constraining excessive managerial risk taking.

Keywords: Inside debt; Pension; Deferred compensation; Cost of equity; Excessive risk-taking

JEL Classification: G30; M12

Suggested Citation:

Shen, Carl Hsin-han and Zhang, Hao, What’s Good for You is Good for Me: The Effect of CEO Inside Debt on the Cost of Equity (January 15, 2019). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming , 2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3318751
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
R Albuquerue , N Wang
Agency conflicts, investment, and asset pricing
Journal of Finance , volume 63 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2008
Crossref
K A Alces , B D Galle
The false promise of risk-reducing incentive pay: Evidence from executive pensions and deferred compensation
J. Corp. L , volume 38 Posted: 2012
D Anantharaman , V W Fang
Executive debt-like compensation
Corporate Governance , p. 139 - 156 Posted: 2012
Crossref
D Anantharaman , V W Fang , G Gong
Inside debt and the design of corporate debt contracts
Management Science , volume 60 , issue 5 , p. 1260 - 1280 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Lan Phuong Nguyen
Disclosures of CEO inside debt and the timing of new bond issuance
39 Pages · Posted: 21 Oct 2020 · Last revised: 31 Jan 2022 · Downloads: 94
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Abu S. Amin , Ashrafee T Hossain , Abdullah Al Masum
Carbon emissions and abnormal cash holdings
Amin, A., Hossain, A., & Masum, A. (2024). Carbon emissions and abnormal cash holdings. Accounting & Finance. · 53 Pages · Posted: 25 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 8 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 255
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,175
RANK
531,260
2 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies