Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm-Specific Characteristics, Corporate Governance and Voluntary Disclosure in Annual Reports of Listed Companies in Bangladesh

Posted: 31 Jan 2019

Prof. Dr. Md. Abdur Rouf

Daffodil International University

Date Written: January 20, 2019

Abstract

The aim of the study is to examine the factors influences voluntary disclosures of information in the annual reports of listed companies in Dhaka Stock Exchange (DSE) over the period of 2007 to 2011. A sample of 106 non-financial companies listed on DSE was selected by judgemental sampling. The results of the disclosure index indicate that four highest disclosure scorer listed companies in DSE are from the industrial categories of ‘Fuel and Power’ and ‘Pharmaceuticals and Chemicals’ and four lowest disclosure scorer listed companies in DSE are from the industrial category of ‘Food and Allied’. Secondly, the results indicate that the total assets, the percentage of female directors, board leadership structure of a firm are positively associated with the level of voluntary disclosure. The result also indicates that the percentage of equity owned by the insiders of a firm is negatively associated with the level of voluntary disclosures.

Suggested Citation:

Rouf, Prof. Dr. Md. Abdur, Firm-Specific Characteristics, Corporate Governance and Voluntary Disclosure in Annual Reports of Listed Companies in Bangladesh (January 20, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3319126
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
803
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies