Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Complex Pyramid Structure, Judicial Efficiency and Firm Performance A Comparative Analysis of Chinese and Pakistani Listed Companies

2019 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference

34 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2019

Muhammad Shah

Southwest Jiaotong University - School of Economics & Management

Zuo Ping Xiao

Hangzhou Dianzi University

Abdullah

PAF- Karachi Institute of Economics & Technology

Shakir Quresh

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - School of Finance

Date Written: January 20, 2019

Abstract

This study explores the association between the complex pyramid ownership structure and firm’s market performance at Chinese and Pakistani firms, and the effect of efficient judiciary on this relationship. Previous studies report that Pakistani pyramidal firms have complex ownership structure, which motivate us to study the effect of complex pyramid structure on the performance of Chinese and Pakistani firms.We use a sample of non-financial Chinese and Pakistani firms for the period 2010-2017. Results show that pyramid structure at Pakistani firms is more complex than at Chines firms, and that control layers and control chains have negative association with performance. However, in chines pyramidal firms the control layers have negative association with firm’s performance while control chains have no association with firm’s performance, we find that efficient district courts moderate the negative effect of control layers and control chains on the dividend payout. Our results show that in the presence of inefficient courts the minority investor rights have insignificant effect on the relationship of complex pyramid structure and firm’s performance.

Keywords: Complex pyramid, Judicial Efficiency, Investor protections, Performance

JEL Classification: G2,G3

Suggested Citation:

Shah, Muhammad and Xiao, Zuo Ping and Abdullah and Quresh, Shakir, Complex Pyramid Structure, Judicial Efficiency and Firm Performance A Comparative Analysis of Chinese and Pakistani Listed Companies (January 20, 2019). 2019 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3319269 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3319269
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,913
RANK
388,737
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies