Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ineffective Privatization of Public Enterprises : Case Study of Bangladesh

Journal of Financial Management and Analysis, Vol 31:2018-2019

Posted: 31 Jan 2019

Tanweer Akram

Citibank

Date Written: January 10, 2018

Abstract

This paper analyzes some of the limitations of the privatization of public enterprises in Bangladesh focusing on the debt-default status and the tax registration profile of privatized firms. Detailed analyses of the debt-default status and the tax registration profile of privatized firms are presented, using unique data sets obtained exclusively for this paper from Bangladesh’s central bank and the national tax authorities. Many privatized firms have substantial overdue loans. A large number of privatized firms have been able to evade tax registration. The post-privatization experience of Bangladesh lends credence to the view that in some developing and transition economies debt-default and tax noncompliance are routes by which privatized firms’ budget constraints are often softened in spite of privatization.

Keywords: Privatization, Bangladesh, Debt Default, Tax Evasion

JEL Classification: E65; H43; H63; N15

Suggested Citation:

Akram, Tanweer, Ineffective Privatization of Public Enterprises : Case Study of Bangladesh (January 10, 2018). Journal of Financial Management and Analysis, Vol 31:2018-2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3320401
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
837
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies