Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
State Ownership, Implicit Government Bailout Guarantee, and Crash Risk: Evidence From China

46 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2019

Mingfa Ding

Lund University - Department of Economics

Zhongda He

Minjiang University - Newhuadu Business School; Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - Chinese Academy of Finance and Development

Yuecheng Jia

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - Chinese Academy of Finance and Development

Mi Shen

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - Chinese Academy of Finance and Development

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 20, 2019

Abstract

Using a large sample of the Chinese public firms, this study documents that the government intervention via state ownership can mitigate the stock crash risk. The mitigation effect of state ownership is more pronounced in the crisis periods and in the sample of firms with shares held by central government. Further evidence indicates that high state ownership mitigates the crash risk by deterring the short selling activities. Our empirical results reveal that short sellers especially informed short sellers, view high state ownership as the implicit government bailout guarantee against bankruptcy and voluntarily withdraw shares shorted. The decreased informed short selling activities block the incorporation of bad news.

Keywords: State Ownership, Crash Risk

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G18, G34

Suggested Citation:

Ding, Mingfa and He, Zhongda and Jia, Yuecheng and Shen, Mi, State Ownership, Implicit Government Bailout Guarantee, and Crash Risk: Evidence From China (January 20, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3320175 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3320175
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Daron Acemoglu , Simon Johnson , Amir Kermani , James Kwak , Todd Mitton
The value of connections in turbulent times: Evidence from the united states
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , p. 368 - 391 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Panayiotis C Andreou , Christodoulos Louca , Andreas P Petrou
Ceo age and stock price crash risk
Review of Finance , volume 21 , p. 1287 - 1325 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Paul Asquith , A Parag , Jay R Pathak , Ritter
Short interest, institutional ownership, and stock returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 78 , p. 243 - 276 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Michael J Barclay , Terrence Hendershott
Liquidity externalities and adverse selection: Evidence from trading after hours
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 681 - 710 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,115
RANK
254,445
7 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies