Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Reliability of Internal Audit Functions: The Issues

Journal of Contemporary Research in Business, Economics and Finance, 1(1), 46-55

10 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2019 Last revised: 27 Oct 2020

Dozie Okodo

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

Mohammed Aliu Momoh

University of Lagos

Adabenege Onipe Yahaya

Nigerian Defense Academy

Date Written: January 19, 2019

Abstract

The paper examined the issues in internal audit reliability. It specifically provided conceptual and practical insights into some of the consequential issues worth pondering about when assessing the reliability of the internal audit functions. Particularly, the paper identified and discussed four (4) of such issues namely: competency of internal auditors, level of management support/influence, independence and objectivity of internal auditors; and regulatory issues. The paper took a conceptual approach and drew its basis from the Institutional and Protection Motivation theories. Based on literature and other documentary evidences, the paper took the position that the four identified factors would most likely influence the internal audit reliability. Among other policy implications, the paper, therefore, proposed a conceptual research framework to be empirically examined by future researchers.

Keywords: Auditing, Internal Audit, Reliability, Auditor's Independence and Objectivity

JEL Classification: M42, M41, M48, M54

Suggested Citation:

Okodo, Dozie Benedict and Momoh, Mohammed Aliu and Yahaya, Adabenege Onipe, Assessing the Reliability of Internal Audit Functions: The Issues (January 19, 2019). Journal of Contemporary Research in Business, Economics and Finance, 1(1), 46-55, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3320739
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A A Adeniji
Auditing and Investigations Posted: 2011
M E Akpomi , J Amesi
Behavioural constraints on practices of auditing in Nigeria (BCPAN)
Educational Research and Review , volume 4 , issue 10 , p. 465 - 469 Posted: 2014
A M S Alrjoub , M A Ahmad
Internal audit and its impact on risk management at the Islamic banks listed in Posted: 2017
Crossref
A A M Al-Twaijry , J A Brierley , D R Gwilliam
The development of internal audit in Saudi Arabia: an institutional theory perspective
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 14 , issue 5 , p. 507 - 531 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
785
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,588
RANK
73,031
3 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies