Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Connections and Short Sellers

71 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2019 Last revised: 6 Feb 2022

Yuecheng Jia

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - Chinese Academy of Finance and Development

Betty J. Simkins

Oklahoma State University - Stillwater - Department of Finance

Hongrui Feng

Pennsylvania State University

Date Written: January 2, 2019

Abstract

Prior studies document politically-connected firms (PCFs) tend to have a higher probability of government bailout. This study finds that the government bailout guarantee, embedded in PCFs, deters the short sale activity. Informed short sellers view the guarantee as a higher expected cost of short sale against PCFs. The deterrence effect of this government guarantee decreases the return predictive power of the short sale activity. The effect also leads heavily-shorted PCFs to have a higher factor-adjusted return than heavily-shorted non-PCFs. Further evidence shows the implicit government guarantee impediments the incorporation of bad news into the stock prices of PCFs, mitigating the severity of the crash risk.

Keywords: Political Connections, Short Selling

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G34

Suggested Citation:

Jia, Yuecheng and Simkins, Betty J. and Feng, Hongrui, Political Connections and Short Sellers (January 2, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3320185 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3320185
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Daron Acemoglu , Simon Johnson , Amir Kermani , James Kwak , Todd Mitton
The value of connections in turbulent times: Evidence from the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , p. 368 - 391 Posted: 2016
Acharya , V Viral , Thomas Lasse H Pedersen , Matthew Philippon , Richardson
Measuring systemic risk, The Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , p. 2 - 47 Posted: 2017
Linda Allen , Turan G Bali , Yi Tang
Does systemic risk in the financial sector predict future economic downturns?
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 , p. 3000 - 3036 Posted: 2012
Yakov Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,066
RANK
377,290
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies