Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Long-Run Implications of Audit Committee Overboarding on Auditor Contracting and Financial Reporting Quality

49 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2019

Jack Castonguay

Hofstra University - Department of Accounting, Taxation and Legal Studies in Business

Date Written: January 24, 2019

Abstract

Since the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) there has been a concern amongst regulators and the investing community that overboarded audit committees, those with members holding multiple other board seats, are unable to effectively monitor the companies they represent. I find these concerns unwarranted. Results indicate that more overboarded audit committees have adequately adjusted to their increased workloads in the decade since SOX to such a degree that they have lower misstatement frequencies than less overboarded committees. Initially through contracting with their auditors and later by moving along their own learning curve, more overboarded audit committees have found responses that aid in their monitoring, leading to higher quality financial reporting. Overall, I find that more overboarded audit committees perform effective monitoring despite members serving on multiple other boards. Results suggest that reputational concerns and preserving opportunities for future board nominations outweigh the time constraints associated with being more overboarded.

Keywords: audit committees, financial reporting quality, monitoring, overboarding

Suggested Citation:

Castonguay, John, The Long-Run Implications of Audit Committee Overboarding on Auditor Contracting and Financial Reporting Quality (January 24, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3321972 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3321972
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
( Nacd) , N A O C D
Report of the NACD Blue Ribbon Committee on Director Professionalism Posted: 1996
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Eli Amir , Jose M. Carabias , Jonathan Jona , Gilad Livne
Fixed-Effects in Empirical Accounting Research
Pages: 51 Posted: 23 Jul 2015 Last revised: 6 Mar 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S C Asthana , J P Boone
Abnormal Audit Fee and Audit Quality. Auditing-a Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,581
RANK
285,293
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies