Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Externality of Public Firms’ Financial Information in the State-Bond Secondary Market

Forthcoming, Journal of Accounting Research

Posted: 31 Jan 2019 Last revised: 8 Apr 2021

Stephanie F. Cheng

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 15, 2021

Abstract

This study provides evidence on the role of public firms’ financial reports in the state-bond secondary market. I investigate the informational role of corporate earnings announcements and find that public firms’ monthly earnings signals aggregated to the state level are positively associated with contemporaneous state-bond returns. Further analyses reveal that public firms’ earnings announcements predict traditional economic indicators and contain incremental information that is independent of the traditional economic indicators. In cross-sectional analyses, I show that the earnings-returns relation is especially pronounced when bondholders face longer investment horizons and higher credit risks. Taken together, the evidence indicates a positive externality of corporate financial reports in alleviating the opacity in the municipal bond secondary market.

Keywords: Information Externality; Municipal Debt; Public Finance; Aggregate Earnings; Economic Indicator

JEL Classification: D82; D83; H74; M40; M41

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Stephanie F., The Information Externality of Public Firms’ Financial Information in the State-Bond Secondary Market (February 15, 2021). Forthcoming, Journal of Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3321344 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3321344
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,033
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies