Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Inventory Conversion Period on Firm Profitability and Capital Intensity of Listed Construction Firms in Sri Lanka

1 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2019

Niruja Rajakulanajagam

University of Jaffna - Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

The study is aimed to examine the impact of inventory conversion period on firm profitability and capital intensity of listed construction firms in Sri Lanka. The study considered firm profitability as the dependent variable which is measured by Gross Profit (GP) and inventory Conversion Period (ICP) as the independent variable. Moreover, study also scrutinize Current Ratio(CR) and Debt Ratio (DR) as control variable. The study examined all construction firms listed on CSE over the period of five years from 2010 to 2014. The required data and information for the study were gathered from published annual reports and website of listed companies in CSE. Correlation and regression analysis were used to find out the relationship and state the impact between the variables. Analyzed results suggest there is a significant negative relationship between ICP and GP. Further, GOP has a positive relationship with debt ratio and current ratio. The efficiency in managing the above variables helps in increasing the profitability and capital intensity of the construction firm.

Keywords: Construction Firms, Capital Intensity, Firm Profitability, Inventory Conversion Period

Suggested Citation:

Rajakulanajagam, Niruja, Impact of Inventory Conversion Period on Firm Profitability and Capital Intensity of Listed Construction Firms in Sri Lanka (2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3321023 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3321023
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,157
RANK
432,018
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies