Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Dividend Payout Policy: A Study on Selected Listed Manufacturing Companies in Sri Lanka

Published in ICE 2014, Eastern, Sri Lanka

7 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2019 Last revised: 5 Apr 2021

Niruja Rajakulanajagam

University of Jaffna - Department of Accounting

N. Ludsana

University of Jaffna - Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

The study is aimed to examine the determinants that affecting the dividend policy of listed manufacturing companies in Sri Lanka. The study considered Dividend policy as the dependent variable and Leverage, firm performance, sales growth, corporate tax and firm size as the independent variable. The sample has been examined the fifteen manufacturing companies listed on CSE as per the purposive sampling techniques over a period of five years from 2009 to 2013. The required data and information for the study were gathered from published annual reports and website of listed companies in CSE. Correlation and regression analysis were used to find out the relationship and state the impact between the variables. Analyzed results revealed that suggest there is a positive significant relationship between leverage and market capitalization of the study. Profitability, liquidity and sales growth also have positive relationship with dividend payout but not significant. Lastly, the study confirms the fact that leverage and market capitalization are the important determinants of dividend payment.

Keywords: Dividend Policy, Financial Leverage, Firm Size, Sales Growth

Suggested Citation:

Rajakulanajagam, Niruja and Ludsana, N., Determinants of Dividend Payout Policy: A Study on Selected Listed Manufacturing Companies in Sri Lanka (2014). Published in ICE 2014, Eastern, Sri Lanka, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3321008 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3321008
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
V Aivazian , L Booth
Do emerging market firms follow different dividend policies from US firms?
J Finance Res , volume 26 , p. 371 - 87 Posted: 2003
H N Al-Malkawi
Determinant of Corporate Dividend Policy in Jordan
Journal of Economic and Administrative Since , volume 23 , p. 44 - 71 Posted: 2007
H K Baker , E T E Veit &amp; G , Powell
Factors Influencing Dividend Policy Decisions of Nasdaq Firms. The Financial Review
Eastern Finance Association Posted: 2001-08
H K Baker , G E Farrelly , R B Edelman
A survey of management views on dividend policy
Finance Manage , volume 14 , p. 1007 - 1041 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,040
RANK
605,468
1 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies