Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reductions in CEO Career Horizons and Corporate Policies

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

Proceedings of Paris December 2019 Finance Meeting EUROFIDAI - ESSEC

46 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2019 Last revised: 31 Dec 2020

Nihat Aktas

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Audra Boone

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Finance & Real Estate; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Ettore Croci

Catholic University of the Sacred Heart of Milan

Andrea Signori

Catholic University of Milan

Date Written: December 18, 2020

Abstract

We provide evidence on the effect of personal shocks that reduce a CEO’s expected career horizon on corporate policies. The timing of these events is not predictable based on observable characteristics, and affected CEOs experience greater turnover rates and shorter residual time-in-office. Following the shock, these firms moderate both R&D and capital expenditures and increase cash distributions. While these changes are consistent with greater short-term orientation, they are not detrimental to shareholders, as performance increases after the shock. Earnings management and firm risk remain unchanged, while both CEO total compensation and equity-based compensation decline. Overall, our results indicates that the improved performance comes from the implementation of more efficient firm policies, likely driven by an internal tournament effect after the shock rather than from opportunistic behavior.

Keywords: CEO, career horizon, tenure, illness, opportunism, investment, R&D, payout

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Aktas, Nihat and Boone, Audra and Croci, Ettore and Signori, Andrea, Reductions in CEO Career Horizons and Corporate Policies (December 18, 2020). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Proceedings of Paris December 2019 Finance Meeting EUROFIDAI - ESSEC, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3321049 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3321049
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
D H Autor
Outsourcing at will: The contribution of unjust dismissal doctrine to the growth of employment outsourcing
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 21 , p. 1 - 42 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B Barber , J D Lyon
Detecting long-run abnormal stock returns: The empirical power and specification of test statistics
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 43 , p. 341 - 372 Posted: 1997
Crossref
P M Dechow , R G Sloan , A P Sweeney
Detecting Earnings Management. Accounting Review , volume 70 , p. 193 - 225 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,764
RANK
276,216
4 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies