Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Hedge Fund Activism on Audit Pricing

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2019 Last revised: 3 Oct 2023

Huimin (Amy) Chen

University of Massachusetts Lowell - The Robert J. Manning School of Business

Bill Francis

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) - Lally School of Management

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Date Written: January 28, 2020

Abstract

The extant literature focuses on the economic effect of significant changes that activist hedge funds enact, but shows mixed findings about the effect on the information environment. We investigate the informational effect on the third party — namely, the auditor — and argue that the potential significant changes in target firms heighten the complexity and uncertainty of the information environment, potentially increasing the workload or risk for auditors. We find that auditors react to hedge fund intervention by increasing audit fees. This relationship holds in a battery of identification tests that address endogeneity, including difference-in-differences analysis with propensity score matching, coarsened exact matching, entropy balancing, and a placebo test. Further analysis supports our conjecture that information complexity and uncertainty increase in target firms, leading to higher audit fees. Moreover, auditors increase their effort after intervention but do not seem to incur greater audit risk. This finding suggests that the information risk arising from the potential post-intervention changes is within auditors’ threshold of risk tolerance, consistent with the corporate governance effect of hedge fund activism.

Keywords: Hedge fund activism, Auditors, Audit fees, Financial reporting complexity, Internal control weakness

JEL Classification: G340

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Huimin (Amy) and Francis, Bill and Wu, Qiang, The Impact of Hedge Fund Activism on Audit Pricing (January 28, 2020). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3321134 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3321134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,963
RANK
312,896
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies