Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Monitoring or Payroll Maximization? What Happens When Workers Enter the Boardroom?

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2019 Last revised: 4 Jun 2021

Cristi A. Gleason

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Sascha Kieback

University of Münster

Martin Thomsen

University of Siegen

Christoph Watrin

University of Muenster - Accounting Center; University of Muenster - Accounting Center

Date Written: June 4, 2021

Abstract

We examine whether worker representation on corporate boards results in improved monitoring or payroll maximization. Several economic theories predict that worker representatives would use control and voting rights in the boardroom to transform firm assets into private benefits and increased wages, but labor contract models suggest that workers’ inside information should permit improved monitoring. To investigate this conflict, we use mandatory worker representation on corporate boards in Germany. Using hand-collected data, our results suggest that the worker representatives’ payroll maximization incentives dominate their monitoring duties. Specifically, worker representatives reduce real earnings management when it results in wage cuts or job losses but not when it increases payroll or job security. Similarly, worker representatives are generally associated with improved monitoring of tax planning activities. However, when the risk of offshoring jobs is high, worker representatives do not promote tax planning for low-aggression firms and instead block aggressive tax planning for high-aggression firms. This evidence helps policymakers and researchers better understand the role of workers in corporate governance systems and contributes to the ongoing public debate about introducing worker representation in the United States and the United Kingdom.

Keywords: worker representation, monitoring, payroll maximization, agency conflict, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G34, H25, K34, M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Gleason, Cristi A. and Kieback, Sascha and Thomsen, Martin and Watrin, Christoph and Watrin, Christoph, Monitoring or Payroll Maximization? What Happens When Workers Enter the Boardroom? (June 4, 2021). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3322700 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3322700
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
138 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A K Agrawal , D A Matsa
Labor unemployment risk and corporate financing decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , p. 449 - 470 Posted: 2013
Crossref
K R Ahern , A K Dittmar
The changing of the boards: The impact on firm valuation of mandated female board representation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
324
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,455
RANK
213,039
1 Citations
138 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies