Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Disclosure in Nigerian Listed Companies

Folashade Adefemi, Abeer Hassan and Mary Fletcher. (2018). “Corporate Governance Disclosure in Nigerian listed Companies”. International Research Journal of Business Studies, Vol. 11, No.2, pp. 67-80

24 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2019

Folashade Adefemi

University of West of Scotland

Abeer Hassan

University of West of Scotland

Mary Fletcher

University of Strathclyde - Department of Accounting and Finance; University of the West of Scotland

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

Corporate Governance Disclosure (hereafter CGD) is the extent to which an organization transparently discloses its governance practices and strategies to stakeholders. This paper aims to examine the impact of corporate governance disclosure on firm performance, board composition, and company size. To achieve the research aim, this study used secondary data from companies listed on the Nigerian stock exchange and examined 31 companies across 5 sectors from 2010-2013. This paper adopts theoretical triangulation to provide a wide and deep understanding of the topic with the aim of both contributing to the literature and providing insights on how compliance can influence current governance practice in Nigeria. This study used panel regression techniques and the results indicate that asset turnover, board composition and number of employees are all significantly related to corporate governance disclosure. However, return on assets, return on equity and earnings per share are not significant. Overall, this study found that listed companies compliance with the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) Disclosure requirements has a positive influence on corporate governance performance for the firms listed in the Nigerian Stock Exchange.

Keywords: Corporate Governance Disclosure, SEC Codes, Nigeria

Suggested Citation:

Adefemi, Folashade and Hassan, Abeer and Fletcher, Mary and Fletcher, Mary, Corporate Governance Disclosure in Nigerian Listed Companies (2018). Folashade Adefemi, Abeer Hassan and Mary Fletcher. (2018). “Corporate Governance Disclosure in Nigerian listed Companies”. International Research Journal of Business Studies, Vol. 11, No.2, pp. 67-80, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3322063 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3322063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Stakeholder Engagement Standards. Retrieved from Accountability Posted: 2015
Crossref
Uchenna Efobi , Alheri Bwala
Voluntary Information Disclosure Practice of Listed Companies in Nigeria
Efobi, U.R., and Bwala, A. (2013), Voluntary Information Disclosure Practice of Listed Companies in Nigeria, Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria- ICAN Journal of Accounting & Finance, 2(1), 13-30. Pages: 24 Posted: 14 Jan 2014 Last revised: 17 Jan 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
I B Ehikioya
Corporate governance structure and firm performance in developing economies: evidence from Nigeria
Corporate Governance: The international journal of business in society , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 231 - 243 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M K Eisenhardt
Agency Theory: Assessment and review
Academy of Management Review , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 74 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
527
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,606
RANK
121,660
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies