Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Assurance Disclosure Practice: An Investigation of the Top 100 Companies in Bangladesh

International Journal of Sustainable Economy (2018) Vol 10, No. 3, pp. 283-313

48 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2019

Nawreen Subhan

University of the West of Scotland, School of Business & Enterprise

Abeer Hassan

University of West of Scotland

Mary Fletcher

University of Strathclyde - Department of Accounting and Finance; University of the West of Scotland

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

This study investigates the link between assurance practices of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) reports using the top 100 Bangladeshi companies in the year 2015 based on the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI). The main objective is to find out to what extent companies in Bangladesh assure their CSR activities. To achieve the research objectives, three research questions are developed to examine the interrelationships between assurance and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) disclosure, industry sector, and reporting format. We find that, in general, Bangladeshi companies tend to assure their disclosure in the areas of economic performance, labour and society. We find that non-carbon Bangladeshi companies tend to get their CSR disclosure assured. We also find that Bangladeshi companies which adopt assurance tend to disclose more CSR activities on their annual report. Our results, in general, support proactive legitimacy theory as they provide evidence that Bangladeshi companies proactively disclose CSR information in certain areas and seek assurance to enhance stakeholders’ confidence and credibility of social and environmental reporting.

Keywords: Assurance, Corporate Social Responsibility, Global Reporting Initiative, Environmental Reporting

Suggested Citation:

Subhan, Nawreen and Hassan, Abeer and Fletcher, Mary and Fletcher, Mary, Corporate Social Responsibility and Assurance Disclosure Practice: An Investigation of the Top 100 Companies in Bangladesh (2018). International Journal of Sustainable Economy (2018) Vol 10, No. 3, pp. 283-313, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3322058 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3322058
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
Accountability
Setting the standard for corporate responsibility and sustainable development' -AA1000 assurance standard Posted: 2008-07-25
B Ackers , N S Eccles
Mandatory corporate social responsibility assurance practices
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 515 - 550 Posted: 2015
Crossref
W Al-Bassam , C G Ntim , K K Opong , Y Downs
Corporate Boards and Ownership Structure as Antecedents of Corporate Governance Disclosure in Saudi Arabian Publicly Listed Corporations' Business and Society , volume 34 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2015
Crossref
S A Al-Tuwaijri , T E Christensen , K E Hughes
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: a simultaneous equations approach', Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 29 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,294
RANK
635,835
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies