Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Tax Transparency Tackle Tax Avoidance?: A Stakeholder Perspective

International Journal of Advances in Management and Economics, 8 (1), pp. 46-59

15 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2019

Paul Eisenberg

University of Derby; University of Portsmouth

Date Written: November 22, 2018

Abstract

The present work approaches the research question: Does tax transparency through mandatory corporate tax return disclosure tackle tax avoidance? Tax avoidance has far-reaching social implications. The aim of this study is to shed light on tax avoidance and to help mitigate its adverse social repercussions. The research is inspired by The United Kingdom Corporate and Individual Tax and Financial Transparency Bill, which was proposed, albeit unsuccessfully, during the 2010-2015 UK Parliament. The implications of a tax return disclosure regime are assessed against the WPP Group, a major UK public company listed on FTSE 100. The stakeholders affected by corporate tax return disclosure are analysed using the Power-Interest-Matrix. Their power is assessed through financial indicators derived from the company’s financial statements. Their interest is scrutinized through vocabulary analysis with the Form-Oriented Content Analytic Method. The impact of the disclosed tax avoidance on the stakeholders and their response are mixed. There are numerous pathways available depending on the stakeholder group and their incentives. Also, stakeholders of the same group do not behave unanimously. These findings are supported by empirical evidence from Europe, Asia and the USA. In order to channel dispersed stakeholder activity the study makes a proposal to introduce a threshold for parties interested in corporate tax information. The author is not aware on any tax avoidance research combining the Power-Interest-Matrix and the Form-Oriented Content Analytic Method. This enhances the originality of the study and may encourage other scholars to enrich their research inventory through these instruments.

Keywords: Tax Avoidance, Tax Transparency, Stakeholder Analysis, Content Analysis, Power-Interest-Matrix

JEL Classification: K34, M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Eisenberg, Paul, Does Tax Transparency Tackle Tax Avoidance?: A Stakeholder Perspective (November 22, 2018). International Journal of Advances in Management and Economics, 8 (1), pp. 46-59, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3324304 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3324304
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
M Meacher
) my draft bill against tax avoidance. The Guardian Posted: 2013-09-05
J Ball
FTSE 100's use of tax havensget the full list. The Guardian Posted: 2013-05-12
R Budden
WPP investors vote to move back to UK. The Financial Times Posted: 2012-12-11
Wpp Group
WPP at a glance Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
258
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,051
RANK
270,833
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies