Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Securities Disclosure As Soundbite: The Case of CEO Pay Ratios

Boston College Law Review, Vol. 60, 2019

Emory Legal Studies Research Paper No. 19-447

UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 19-03

83 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2019 Last revised: 2 May 2019

Steven A. Bank

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - School of Law

George S. Georgiev

University of Miami, School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: January 29, 2019

Abstract

This Article analyzes the history, design, and effectiveness of the highly controversial CEO pay ratio disclosure rule, which went into effect in 2018. Based on a regulatory mandate contained in the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, the rule requires public companies to disclose the ratio between CEO pay and median worker pay as part of their annual filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The seven-year rulemaking process was politically contentious and generated a level of public engagement that was virtually unprecedented in the long history of the SEC disclosure regime. The SEC sought to minimize compliance costs by providing firms with maximum methodological flexibility, expressly foregoing any effort to ensure data comparability across firms. The sizable pay gaps highlighted by the newly reported pay ratios attracted extensive attention from the media and various non-corporate constituencies, fueling public outrage, motivating new proposed legislation, and reinforcing concerns over pay inequity and economic inequality. At the same time, the pay ratio’s role in investor decisionmaking remains uncertain.

We suggest that the pay ratio disclosure rule represents a unique approach to disclosure, which we term disclosure-as-soundbite. This approach is characterized by (1) high public salience — the pay ratio is superficially intuitive and resonates with the public to an extent much greater than other disclosure, and (2) low informational integrity — the pay ratio is a relative outlier in terms of certain baseline characteristics of disclosure, meaning that the information is lacking in accuracy, difficult to interpret, and incomplete. We find that in its current formulation, the rule is ineffectual and potentially counterproductive when viewed as a means of generating useful and reliable information for investors, or influencing firm behavior on matters of worker and executive compensation. The pay ratio is more successful in fomenting or contributing to public discourse on broader societal matters relating to pay inequity and economic inequality, though the quality of the underlying information likely limits the quality of the discourse.

Given the low probability of legislative action in this area in the near term, we propose that the SEC should seek to improve the rule’s informational integrity by mandating a narrative disclosure approach that provides information about median worker pay and the resulting pay ratio with more context, nuance, and explanation. This would be consistent with the format of existing disclosure requirements relating to executive compensation, and it would represent a positive move away from the disclosure-as-soundbite approach. A related and broader question about the need for disclosure of non-executive compensation and human capital management practices deserves further academic study.

Keywords: CEO pay ratio, executive compensation, human capital management, securities regulation, corporate governance, Dodd-Frank Act of 2010

Suggested Citation:

Bank, Steven A. and Georgiev, George S., Securities Disclosure As Soundbite: The Case of CEO Pay Ratios (January 29, 2019). Boston College Law Review, Vol. 60, 2019, Emory Legal Studies Research Paper No. 19-447, UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 19-03 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3324882 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3324882
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Id
at 231 (reporting on minority views)
The grab bag includes puzzling items, like a . . . provision that requires disclosure of the ratio of the median employee's compensation to the chief executive officer's compensation. It looks to me like the way is being paved to achieve so-called 'social justice' in income distribution Posted: 2010-05-20
-financial-overhaul-legislation-agency; see also Letter to SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro Regarding Section 953(b) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Posted: 2012-01-19
H.R , volume 10 Posted: 2017-04-26
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
702
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,219
RANK
84,343
5 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emory University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

University of California, Los Angeles School of Law, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies