Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Capital Market Consequences of Tenure-Based Voting Rights: Evidence from the Florange Act

62 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2019 Last revised: 1 Apr 2021

Thomas Bourveau

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Francois Brochet

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Alexandre Garel

Audencia Business School

Date Written: April 1, 2021

Abstract

We examine the consequences of a regulatory intervention aimed at generalizing
tenure voting in French public companies. The 2014 Florange Act departs from the
‘one share one vote’ principle by automatically granting double voting rights (DVR)
to shares held for at least two years. However, firms can opt out through an annual
meeting vote. We document three main findings. First, firms that adopt DVR by
default experience a decrease in long-term foreign institutional ownership offset by an
increase in insider/family ownership. Second, those firms significantly underperform
in terms of stock returns after Florange relative to those that reject DVR. Third,
their environmental and social performance deteriorates. Collectively, our evidence
casts doubt on the merit of regulation-induced tenure voting as a desirable corporate
governance mechanism. Instead, the results echo concerns that mandating double
voting rights can reinforce insider and blockholder entrenchment.

Keywords: Shareholder Voting, Institutional Ownership, Corporate Governance Regulation

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bourveau, Thomas and Brochet, Francois and Garel, Alexandre, The Capital Market Consequences of Tenure-Based Voting Rights: Evidence from the Florange Act (April 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3324237 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3324237
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
25% of the unique foreign institutional investors, respectively. In Panel D and Panel E, we present the distribution of investors' type for foreign and French investors as per Thomson Reuters Refinitiv's classification, respectively. For foreign investors, the dominant type is Investment Advisor, i.e., individuals or groups that advise on investment strategies and execute transactions on behalf of clients. This contrasts with the distribution we observe for French investors
This reduces our groups of early adopters, rejecters, and default adopters by 30 firms, 8 firms, and 2 firms, respectively. In columns 3 and 4, we impose that all firms in our sample must be listed continuously from 2010 to 2018, four years around the Florange regulation. This reduces our groups of early adopters, rejecters, and default adopters by 51 firms, 17 firms, and 4 firms, respectively. Our results is robust (negative and statistically significant at the 1% level) across all four reported specifications, using both our baseline and extended control groups
Load more
3 Citations
Aurelio Gurrea-Martínez
Theory, Evidence, and Policy on Dual-Class Shares: A Country-Specific Response to a Global Debate
European Business Organization Law Review Posted: 2021
Crossref
Marco Becht , Yuliya Kamisarenka , Anete Pajuste
Loyalty Shares with Tenure Voting - Does the Default Rule Matter? Evidence from the Loi Florange Experiment
European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 398/2018 · 45 Pages · Posted: 2 May 2018 · Last revised: 2 Feb 2020 · Downloads: 730
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mark J. Roe , Holger Spamann , Jesse M. Fried , Charles C. Y. Wang
The European Commission's Sustainable Corporate Governance Report: A Critique
European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper 553/2020, Harvard Public Law Working Paper No. 20-30, Yale Journal on Regulation Bulletin · 27 Pages · Posted: 21 Oct 2020 · Last revised: 27 Apr 2021 · Downloads: 2,176
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,048
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,331
RANK
49,015
3 Citations
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies