Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Local Religious Norms, Corporate Social Responsibility, and Firm Value

Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2019

Leon Zolotoy

University of Melbourne - Melbourne Business School

Don O'Sullivan

University of Melbourne - Melbourne Business School

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: January 28, 2019

Abstract

We explore the impact of religious norms on the relationship between corporate social responsibility (CSR) and firm value. Employing a longitudinal sample of publicly listed U.S. firms, we document that strong local religious norms in the area surrounding firms’ headquarters attenuate the positive effect of CSR on firm value. In cross-sectional analyses, we find that the attenuating effect of strong local religious norms is amplified for firms with heightened litigation risk. We also find that the positive effect of CSR on firm value is amplified for firms headquartered in areas where prevailing religious norms are more tolerant of risk-taking. Further, we find that strong religious norms attenuated the positive association between CSR and abnormal stock returns during the 2008-2009 financial crisis. Taken together, our findings cast local religious norms as an important contextual factor that influences the insurance value of CSR — the protection that CSR affords against stakeholder reactions to negative events.

Suggested Citation:

Zolotoy, Leon and O'Sullivan, Don and Chen, Yangyang, Local Religious Norms, Corporate Social Responsibility, and Firm Value (January 28, 2019). Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3324138
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
Z S Alam , M A Chen , C S Ciccotello , H E Ryan
Does the location of directors matter? Information acquisition and board decisions
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 49 , p. 131 - 164 Posted: 2014
Crossref
R A Albuquerque , A Durnev , Y Koskinen
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence Posted: 2018
Crossref
G Allayannis , J P Weston
The use of foreign currency derivatives and firm market value
Review of Financial Studies , volume 14 , p. 243 - 276 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
6 Citations
Rajna Gibson , Matthias Sohn , Carmen Tanner , Alexander F. Wagner
Earnings Management and the Role of Moral Values in Investing
Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 17-03, European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 516/2017, European Accounting Review, Forthcoming · 90 Pages · Posted: 7 Feb 2017 · Last revised: 4 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 591
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yuyuan Chang , Wen He , Jianling Wang
Government Initiated Corporate Social Responsibility Activities: Evidence from a Poverty Alleviation Campaign in China
Journal of Business Ethics · 52 Pages · Posted: 14 Jan 2019 · Last revised: 6 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 170
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ole-Kristian Hope , Haihao Lu
Economic Consequences of Corporate Governance Disclosure: Evidence from the 2006 SEC Regulation on Related-Party Transactions
60 Pages · Posted: 11 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 529
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Trevor Gallen
Broken Instruments
133 Pages · Posted: 28 Sep 2020 · Last revised: 26 Aug 2021 · Downloads: 711
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,724
RANK
407,330
6 Citations
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies