Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Accountability: Non-Financial Disclosure and Liability – A French Perspective

ECFR 2017, 399-434

36 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2019

Iris M. Barsan

University Paris-Est Créteil (UPEC)

Date Written: November 30, 2017

Abstract

France has recently adopted two laws on CSR and anti-corruption that significantly increase the responsibility of large companies and impose a compliance approach on them. While the anti-corruption law was a necessity to catch up with international standards in this regard, the law creating a duty of vigilance is based rather on a desire to place France at the top of the CSR agenda. The ambition of the authors of this law - highly debated and criticized - was to set an example so that other countries would follow suit. It is therefore not surprising that the scope of the law on the duty of vigilance is extremely broad. These obligations are imposed at the group level. The parent company must provide compliance measures for itself, all its direct or indirect subsidiaries around the world and its and their established business partners. The liability of large companies has therefore increased substantially.

However, this French approach is in clear opposition to the European approach based on transparency (Dir. 2014/95/EU). In addition, the law has certain shortcomings that could take away some of its effectiveness. Finally, it may impose a considerable burden on French companies that their foreign competitors do not have to bear.

This article aims to critically present and analyse the French approach compared to the European approach.


Keywords: CSR, Fight Against Corruption, France, Liability, Compliance

Suggested Citation:

Barsan, Iris M., Corporate Accountability: Non-Financial Disclosure and Liability – A French Perspective (November 30, 2017). ECFR 2017, 399-434, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325733
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,428
RANK
359,199
3 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies