Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Contingent Litigation Liabilities: What You Disclose Can Be Used Against You

Baruch College Zicklin School of Business Research Paper No. 2019-02-02

33 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2019 Last revised: 15 Feb 2019

Linda Allen

City University of New York, Baruch College - Zicklin School of Business - Department of Economics and Finance

Date Written: April 2, 2018

Abstract

In order to analyze firm value, investment analysts require information on potential losses from contingent liabilities such as litigation damages. However, revelation of the firm’s private estimates of the probability of loss and possible legal damages can be detrimental to the firm by increasing the costs of settlement. That is, opposing counsel may utilize the firm’s financial disclosures about contingent litigation costs to drive settlement demands. Thus, firms choose to shirk their responsibilities to disclose material litigation liabilities in their financial disclosures. Financial disclosures thereby contain insufficient information about the monetary value of potential litigation damages even for large cases with material litigation risks. This outcome is harmful to investors and management alike.

I propose an accounting regulatory disclosure model that uses publicly-available data to provide noisy, but useful estimates of class action securities litigation damages in fraud on the market cases that does not require full disclosure of sensitive private information about the firm’s internal assessment of litigation merits. However, a collective action constraint prevents firms from voluntarily utilizing this information-enhancing solution without regulation to coordinate accounting disclosure requirements. I show that accounting requirements could be revised to induce mutually beneficial information disclosures that would improve the information content in financial statements with regard to contingent litigation liabilities in fraud on the market suits.


Keywords: Contingent Liabilities, Litigation Damages, Accounting Disclosure

JEL Classification: M41, K41, G30

Suggested Citation:

Allen, Linda, Accounting for Contingent Litigation Liabilities: What You Disclose Can Be Used Against You (April 2, 2018). Baruch College Zicklin School of Business Research Paper No. 2019-02-02, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325545 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3325545
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
304
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,985
RANK
228,376
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies