Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding the Relations Between Internal Controls, Trust, and Cooperation Within an Organization

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

12 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2019

Nicole L. Cade

University of Pittsburgh - Accounting Group

Sarah E. McVay

University of Washington

Date Written: September 26, 2018

Abstract

Coletti, Sedatole, and Towry (2005) provide seminal evidence that controls can increase trust and cooperation. Garrett, Livingston, and Tayler (2018) replicate and extend Coletti et al. (2005), providing evidence that the results extend to different tasks and to individuals in non-interactive settings. We discuss the contribution of Garrett et al. (2018) against the backdrop of the current state of the literature on internal controls, trust, and cooperation, and provide a number of possible extensions researchers might pursue to learn more about the boundaries of controls.

Keywords: Internal Controls, Trust, Reciprocity

Suggested Citation:

Cade, Nicole L. and McVay, Sarah E., Understanding the Relations Between Internal Controls, Trust, and Cooperation Within an Organization (September 26, 2018). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3327520 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3327520
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Eric W. Chan , Jeremy B. Lill
The Effects of Ex Ante versus Ex Post Discretionary Contracts on Worker Performance, Trust, and Reciprocity
Pages: 55 Posted: 19 Aug 2017 Last revised: 1 Dec 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Anna Cianci , Bernhard Erich Reichert , Karen Sedatole , George T. Tsakumis
The immunization effect of internal control system transparency following a supplier’s violation of buyer trust
Pages: 54 Posted: 18 Aug 2017 Last revised: 2 Nov 2024
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A L Coletti , K L Sedatole , K L Towry
The effect of control systems on trust and cooperation in collaborative environments
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 477 - 500 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Davis , S T Schwartz , R Young
The hidden cost of not informally controlling Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,622
RANK
293,623
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies