Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory CSR Spending and Its Impact on Profitability: An Analysis on NSE–200 Companies

18 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2019

Velmurugan Palaniappan Shanmugam

Central University of Tamilnadu

Gagana D S

Central University of Tamil Nadu

Date Written: February 4, 2019

Abstract

Corporate Social Responsibility is a contribution by companies to the society for utilising the naturally available resources for increasing their profitability. The Companies Act 2013 made it mandatory to spend at least 2 percent of the Average Net Profit, if the company has net worth of INR 500 Crore or more or turnover exceeds INR 1000 Crore or a Net Profit of INR 5 Crore or more during financial year. The study used the secondary data from the annual reports available from NSE website from which 3 years’ profitability and CSR contribution of sample companies were collected. Statistical and financial tools such as percentage, trend analysis, correlation and regression were used for analysing the data. The NSE 200 companies were classified as Banking, Financial Services(excl: Banking), Construction, Power, Manufacturing, Mining and Non-Financial Services. The study reveals that the amount spent by NSE 200 companies on CSR activities are showing an increasing trend which is a good sign for the society whereas companies are not spending 2 percent on net average profit. The study suggests for setting up of separate department under the Ministry of Corporate Affairs for ethical utilization of mandatory CSR funds.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Financial Performance, Net Worth, Net Turnover, Profitability, Net Profit

Suggested Citation:

Palaniappan Shanmugam, Velmurugan and D S, Gagana, Mandatory CSR Spending and Its Impact on Profitability: An Analysis on NSE–200 Companies (February 4, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3328399 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3328399
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Promoting a European framework for Corporate Social Responsibility
European Commission Posted: 2001
Amole Bilqis Bolanle , A S
Corporate Social Responsibility and Profitability of Nigeria Banks -A Causal Relationship
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 6 - 17 Posted: 2012
Harpreet Singh Bedi
Financial Performance and Social Responsibility: Indian Scenario
Pages: 16 Posted: 22 Nov 2009 Last revised: 2 Apr 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Madhu Gaba , Manisha Nagpal
Corporate Social Responsibility and Companies Act, 2013
Pages: 3 Posted: 24 Jan 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,895
RANK
292,443
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies