Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Listed Companies in PSE Meet IFRS Disclosure Requirements?

International Journal of Organizational Leadership 2013, Vol. 2; No. 2; 52-61

10 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2019

Tereza Miková

University of Economics, Prague - Department of Financial Accounting and Auditing

Mariana Valášková

University of Economics, Prague - Department of Financial Accounting and Auditing

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

Strong international integration and globalization affects the contemporary world´s economy which has influence in development of movement of capital, financial markets and decision making of each business entity. Because of increased force to comparability between companies, the idea of one single-setting globally accepted financial reporting standards was started in 1973 in London by International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC) as a standards setter of International Accounting Standards (IAS). In the year 2000 the International Organization of Securities Commission (IOSCO) recommended to use IFRS for all their members. The paper states about Prague Stock Exchange (PSE) as a member of IOSCO, its index PX and companies which create the index PX. The index base is composed of 14 companies which reported their financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS, earlier IAS). The aim of the paper is to briefly introduce Prague Stock Exchange and index PX and to evaluate the chosen disclosure requirements of companies which create the index. The disclosure requirements, which are assessed are chosen from IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements and IFRS 8: Segments reporting. Research of disclosure requirements has been done by gathering the financial statements from years: 2011 and 2012 and assessment of chosen question is based on disclosure requirements of IAS 1 and IFRS 8. Those standards were chosen because of the wide range of companies. The next part of research is to assess the development between the compared years.

Suggested Citation:

Miková, Tereza and Valášková, Mariana, Do Listed Companies in PSE Meet IFRS Disclosure Requirements? (2013). International Journal of Organizational Leadership 2013, Vol. 2; No. 2; 52-61, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3329203
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
IASB. International Financial Reporting standards. London: IFRS Foundation Posted: 2013
Crossref
Prague Stock Exchange
Prague Stock Exchange
Posted: 2013
Prague Stock Exchange
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
943
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies