Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Studies on Gender Diverse Boards: Be Aware of the Value Bias in Corporate Debt

20 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2019 Last revised: 27 Mar 2019

Jan Riepe

Universität Paderborn

Philip Yang

University of Tübingen

Date Written: March 22, 2019

Abstract

We analyze if the empirical research on the consequences of a board’s gender diversity is affected by a specific measurement bias in Tobin’s Q: the value bias in corporate debt (VBCD). Book values of corporate debt are a more downward biased proxy of the market values of debt if increased board’s gender diversity comes with a reduction in corporate risk-taking. Nevertheless, the market values of corporate debt are frequently approximates by their book value when measuring Tobin’s Q.

We first show the VBCD using bond market data and its link to higher board’s gender diversity. Second, we replicate two recent studies on the link between a board’s gender diversity and the firm’s performance. We show how the VBCD impacts the estimations and inferences. Coefficient sizes and significance levels are both affected by the VBCD. Third, we recommend an easy-to-implement correction that explicitly accounts for risk changes in the values of corporate debt.


Keywords: Female Board Members, Book Value Bias, Performance, Risk, Tobin’s Q

JEL Classification: G38, G32, M14

Suggested Citation:

Riepe, Jan and Yang, Philip, Empirical Studies on Gender Diverse Boards: Be Aware of the Value Bias in Corporate Debt (March 22, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3329966 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3329966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,012
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,912
RANK
51,486
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies