Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Value, Financialization and Accounting Regulation: Making Sense of Fair Value Adoption in the European Union

The Routledge Companion to Fair Value in Accounting, 2019, Eds. Gilad Livne and Garen Markarian; ISBN 9781138656505

24 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2019

Vera Palea

University of Turin

Date Written: February 1, 2018

Abstract

This chapter discusses the causes and effects of adopting fair value accounting in the European Union by using a broader perspective that considers accounting within its wider socio-economic context.

Financial reporting is not a neutral, mechanical and objective process that simply measures the economic facts pertaining to a firm. It is rather a powerful practice that is embedded in an institutional context and shapes social and economic processes (Arnold, 2009; Sikka, 2015).

Specifically, this chapter focuses on the European Union (also EU hereafter) and sets the discussion on fair value accounting within the EU’s constitutional setting. The constitutional setting of the EU is provided by the Lisbon Treaty (also 'Treaty' hereafter), which clearly defines the fundamental goals of the Union and the means whereby they can be achieved. The Treaty represents the political construct of the Union, setting the founding principles on which the EU has decided to build and shape its future. It therefore provides social science researchers with an important grid by which to examine economic policies in the EU, including IFRS adoption.


Suggested Citation:

Palea, Vera, Shareholder Value, Financialization and Accounting Regulation: Making Sense of Fair Value Adoption in the European Union (February 1, 2018). The Routledge Companion to Fair Value in Accounting, 2019, Eds. Gilad Livne and Garen Markarian; ISBN 9781138656505, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3329514
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
921
RANK
914,805
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies