Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing the Auditors and Stock Crashes: International Evidence

60 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2019

Qingyuan Li

Wuhan University - School of Economics and Management

Si Li

Wilfrid Laurier University - School of Business & Economics

Li Xu

Washington State University, Vancouver

Date Written: February 4, 2019

Abstract

We investigate the impact of the initiations of national audit inspection programs on firm-specific stock crash risk in 38 countries worldwide. The staggered commencement of the inspection regimes in different countries allows us to identify the causal effect of audit quality on crash risk. We find a significant decrease (32.39%) in a firm’s crash risk subsequent to the initiations of audit inspections. This negative effect is stronger for auditors with smaller size, limited industry expertise, and longer tenure. We further explore the mechanisms through which audit inspections affect crash risk. We find that the effect of inspection programs on crash risk is driven by client firms facing higher ex ante inspection risk, as well as client firms in which auditors play an important role in monitoring managers.

Keywords: Crash Risk, Tail Risk, Audit Quality, Auditor Inspection

JEL Classification: G12, G34, G18, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Li, Qingyuan and Li, Si and Xu, Li, Auditing the Auditors and Stock Crashes: International Evidence (February 4, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3329045 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3329045
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,335
RANK
280,604
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies