Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Societal Trust and Corporate Investment Efficiency

24 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2019 Last revised: 24 Aug 2023

Linus Owusu Afriyie

Xiamen University

Solomon W.D. Adza

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: January 6, 2019

Abstract

The prior literature establishes that trust affects investment, however, whether it leads to investment efficiency is unaddressed. This study seeks to investigate the relationship between societal trust and corporate investment efficiency. The study documents a positive association between societal trust and corporate investment efficiency. Using data from 30 diverse countries, we present evidence that societal trust is positively related to firm’s overinvestment but has a negative relationship with firm’s under-investment. Further analysis of this study also posits a stronger relationship between trust and firm's investment efficiency for financing constraint firms. We interpret these findings as supportive evidence that higher trust is related to favorable outcomes, some being good earnings quality and greater reliability of earnings news. Furthermore, this study from the perspective of social capital literature provides an alternative explanation to investors investment decisions regarding the economic consequences of enhanced trust.

Keywords: Societal Trust, Investment Efficiency, Overinvestment, Underinvestment

JEL Classification: G30, M40, M14

Suggested Citation:

Afriyie, Linus Owusu and Adza, Solomon W.D., Societal Trust and Corporate Investment Efficiency (January 6, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3329039 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3329039
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Kenneth Arrow
The Theory of Discrimination Posted: 1973
Discrimination in Labor Markets
E Banfield
The Moral Basis of Backward Society Posted: 1958
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,791
RANK
377,290
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies