Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Supply and Effectiveness of Investor Relations in Insider- vs. Outsider-Oriented Markets

Management Science, forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2019 Last revised: 16 Nov 2021

Dmitry Bazhutov

BUW - Schumpeter School of Business and Economics

André Betzer

University of Wuppertal - Schumpeter School of Business and Economics

Francois Brochet

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Markus Doumet

BUW- Schumpeter School of Business and Economics

Peter Limbach

University of Bielefeld; Centre for Financial Research (CFR)

Date Written: November 14, 2021

Abstract

Using annual survey-based investor relations (IR) data for a panel of European companies, we document that the supply and effectiveness of IR varies with country- and firm-level demand. Relative to their industry peers, firms from insider-oriented countries have larger IR staff, which predicts better IR rankings. Better IR is associated with greater visibility, information assimilation, and valuation, with visibility and assimilation being significantly greater for firms from insider-oriented countries. Within such countries, firms with greater outsider orientation have higher capital market benefits. Furthermore, using MiFID II as a shock to analyst coverage, we find an incrementally larger association between IR and visibility in insider-oriented countries post 2017. Overall, the evidence suggests that the supply of IR in insider-oriented markets has reached a high level, acting as a viable mechanism to improve firms’ information environment. However, within those countries IR demand still varies significantly, with outsider-oriented firms showing greater IR effectiveness.

Keywords: Investor Relations, Transparency, Ownership Concentration, Firm Visibility, Information Asymmetry, Cost of Capital

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bazhutov, Dmitry and Betzer, André and Brochet, Francois and Doumet, Markus and Limbach, Peter, The Supply and Effectiveness of Investor Relations in Insider- vs. Outsider-Oriented Markets (November 14, 2021). Management Science, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3331936 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3331936
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does Governance Travel around the World? Evidence from Institutional Investors , volume 100 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-section and Time-series Effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
G Aminadav , E Papaioannou
Corporate Control around the World
Journal of Finance , volume 75 , issue 3 , p. 1191 - 1246 Posted: 2020
C Armstrong , J Core , D Taylor , R Verrecchia
When Does Information Asymmetry Affect the Cost of Capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
478
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,396
RANK
136,892
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies