Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Diversification of Share Classes Increase Firm Value?

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 597/2019

Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 19-14

49 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2019

Sojung Kim

Korea University Business School (KUBS)

Sunwoo Hwang

Korea University Business School

Woochan Kim

Korea University Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Asian Institute of Corporate Governance (AICG)

Date Written: February 8, 2019

Abstract

Firms can issue stocks classified in many ways. They can be classified in respect to voting rights, dividend rights, redemption rights, conversion rights, and many others. In this study, we ask if it is desirable to give greater freedom to firms in their choices of class shares. Making use of the 2011 Commercial Act amendment that significantly relaxed the regulation on class shares in Korea, we study the motivation and the effect of adopting two newly emerged class shares – preferred stocks convertible to voting stocks at the discretion of management and preferred stocks redeemable at the discretion of investors. We find that firms adopt the former for managerial entrenchment purpose and destroy firm value by doing so. As for the latter, we find that firms adopt them in times of financial distress but fail to stop the downfall in firm value by doing so.


Keywords: share classes, convertible preferred stocks, redeemable preferred stocks, entrenchment, financial distress

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G33, G34

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Sojung and Hwang, Sunwoo and Kim, Woochan, Does Diversification of Share Classes Increase Firm Value? (February 8, 2019). European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 597/2019, Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 19-14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3331089 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3331089
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Alchian A A , H Demsetz
Production, information costs, and economic organization
American Economic Review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
E I Altman , Y H Eom , D W Kim
Failure prediction: evidence from Korea
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 230 - 249 Posted: 1995
Crossref
P C Austin
Optimal caliper widths for propensity-score matching when estimating differences in means and differences in proportions in observational studies
Pharmaceutical Statistics , volume 10 , p. 150 - 161 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J Coates
Takeover Defenses in the Shadow of the Pill: A Critique of the Scientific Evidence
Texas Law Review , volume 79 , p. 271 - 382 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,235
RANK
256,420
2 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies