Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Institutional Ownership on Firm Performance: The Case of U.S. Listed Shipping Companies

31 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2019

Dimitris A. Tsouknidis

Athens University of Economics and Business

Date Written: December 2018

Abstract

This paper examines the relationship between institutional ownership and firm performance for US listed shipping companies using quarterly 13F reports of institutional holdings over the period 2002 to 2016. Traditionally, public shipping companies exhibit a large concentration of ownership as specific individuals and families hold large percentages of the total shares outstanding. However, institutional investors also hold a substantial percentage of ownership of U.S. listed shipping firms, whose effects on firm performance have not been examined previously in the literature. Results reveal a negative relationship between the percentage of institutional ownership and firm performance, which is primarily attributed to non-strategic rather than strategic institutional investors. This result survives a set of panel data estimators which take into account the presence of dynamic endogeneity in the relationship examined.

Keywords: Institutional Ownership; Firm Performance; Dynamic Panel Data; Dynamic Endogeneity; U.S. Listed Shipping Companies

JEL Classification: G32; G34

Suggested Citation:

Tsouknidis, Dimitris A., The Effect of Institutional Ownership on Firm Performance: The Case of U.S. Listed Shipping Companies (December 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3332362 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3332362
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
664
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,174
RANK
90,581
1 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies