Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Banking Regulation on Voluntary Disclosures: Evidence from the Dodd-Frank Act

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 19-08

Fama-Miller Working Paper

52 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2019

Anya Kleymenova

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

Li Zhang

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting

Date Written: February 11, 2019

Abstract

We investigate how the Dodd-Frank Act (DFA) affects voluntary disclosures of large bank holding companies (BHCs) relative to other banks and unregulated firms in the financial sector. Using a difference-in-differences research design, we find that following the introduction of the DFA, large banks become less likely to issue earnings forecasts containing bad news. They also reduce the frequency of issuing earnings forecasts but increase the frequency of providing forecasts for dividends and return on assets. In earnings-related conference calls, managers of large banks offer information with incrementally higher numerical and forward-looking intensity in both the prepared remarks and their answers to analysts’ questions. Finally, we find that large banks provide incrementally less information than other banks about certain regulated activities and instead focus more on commercial banking financial performance and market innovation. Our findings provide the first evidence of the unintended consequences of the DFA on changes in affected banks’ voluntary disclosures, an important component of the information environment.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, financial institutions, information environment, regulation, Dodd-Frank Act

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G38

Suggested Citation:

Kleymenova, Anya V. and Zhang, Li, The Impact of Banking Regulation on Voluntary Disclosures: Evidence from the Dodd-Frank Act (February 11, 2019). Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 19-08, Fama-Miller Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3332488 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3332488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
V Acharya , Ryan , S
Banks' Financial Reporting and Financial System Stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R Adams , H Mehran
Is corporate governance different for Bank Holding Companies? Federal Reserve Bank of New York Economic Policy Review , volume 9 , p. 123 - 142 Posted: 2003
C Armstrong , W R Guay , H Mehran , J Weber
The role of financial reporting and transparency in corporate governance
FRBNY Economic Policy Review , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 107 - 128 Posted: 2016
R Ball , S Jayaraman , L Shivakumar
Audited financial reporting and voluntary disclosure as complements: A test of the confirmation hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1 , p. 136 - 166 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
508
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,493
RANK
127,186
1 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies