Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of Tunneling: Evidence from Master Limited Partnership Formations

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1111/jbfa.12557, forthcoming.

49 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2019 Last revised: 26 Jul 2021

Aaron Mandell

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 11, 2021

Abstract

Shareholders of publicly-traded subsidiaries are potentially susceptible to expropriation (tunneling) by parent companies (Atanasov, Boone, and Haushalter, 2010). Recent study suggests that this is particularly true among U.S. master limited partnerships (“MLPs”), where there is often substantial divergence between the control rights and cash-flow rights of parent firms, through their general partner interests (Atanassov and Mandell, 2018). Although the negative impact of tunneling on controlled firms is documented in the literature, little is known about the valuation consequences of tunneling for shareholders of parent corporations. Changes to the MLP agency environment over the prior two decades—namely, the allowance of modifications to fiduciary duty under Delaware law and the introduction of incentive distribution rights—have likely increased the incentive and opportunity for tunneling, and provide a rich setting for addressing this question. I examine the effects of changing tunneling incentives on stock returns of parent corporations announcing the formation of MLPs, and document significantly higher announcement period returns for MLP formations after these changes, amounting to roughly $188 million of additional value for shareholders of forming corporations, on average. Considered in concert with additional testing, this suggests that parent corporation shareholders benefit from the increased ability to tunnel MLP assets.

Keywords: Tunneling; Master Limited Partnerships; Equity Carve-Out; Agency Problems

JEL Classification: G30, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Mandell, Aaron, The Value of Tunneling: Evidence from Master Limited Partnership Formations (May 11, 2021). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1111/jbfa.12557, forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3332770
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
483
2 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies