Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mitigation of Moral Hazard and Adverse Selection in Venture Capital Financing: The Influence of the Country’s Institutional Setting

Forthcoming, Journal of Small Business Management

44 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2019 Last revised: 4 Jul 2019

Cristiano Bellavitis

Syracuse University - Whitman School of Management

Dzidziso Samuel Kamuriwo

City University London

Ulrich Hommel

EBS Business School

Date Written: February 11, 2019

Abstract

A venture capitalist (VC) needs to trade off benefits and costs when attempting to mitigate agency problems in their investor-investee relationship. We argue that signals of ventures complement the VC’s capacity to screen and conduct a due diligence during the pre-investment phase, but its attractiveness may diminish in institutional settings supporting greater transparency. Similarly, whereas a VC may opt for contractual covenants to curb potential opportunism by ventures in the post-investment phase, this may only be effective in settings supportive of shareholder rights enforcement. Using an international sample of VC contracts, our study finds broad support for these conjectures. It delineates theoretical and practical implications for how investors can best deploy their capital in different institutional settings whilst nurturing their relationships with entrepreneurs.

Suggested Citation:

Bellavitis, Cristiano and Kamuriwo, Dzidziso Samuel and Hommel, Ulrich, Mitigation of Moral Hazard and Adverse Selection in Venture Capital Financing: The Influence of the Country’s Institutional Setting (February 11, 2019). Forthcoming, Journal of Small Business Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3332771 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3332771
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
C B Bingham , K M Eisenhardt
Rational heuristics: the 'simple rules' that strategists learn from process experience
Strategic Management Journal , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 1437 - 1464 Posted: 2011
Crossref
W Boeker , R Wiltbank
New venture evolution and managerial capabilities
Organization Science , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 123 - 133 Posted: 2005
Crossref
O Bohren
The agent's ethics in the principal-agent model
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 17 , p. 745 - 755 Posted: 1998
K A Bollen
Structural equations with latent variables Posted: 1989
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,745
RANK
418,259
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies