Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Convergence in Corporate Governance Toward US Model? Evidence from Global Petroleum Industries

Convergence in Corporate Governance towards US Model? Evidence from the Global Petroleum Industry,” (with William L. Megginson), 2018, in Corporate Ownership and Control.

20 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2019

William L. Megginson

University of Oklahoma

Romora Edward Sitorus

The University of Oklahoma

Date Written: May 20, 2018

Abstract

The results of our empirical investigation indicate that, on average, corporate governance features in the 80 largest oil and gas companies around the world have changed considerably in the wake of the landmark case of Enron and the 2008 global financial crisis. Both listed non-U.S. firms and listed U.S. oil and gas firms have increased the proportion of outside directors on the board and have reduced CEO-Chairman duality over the period 2005-2015. This decreasing CEO-Chairman duality trend for listed U.S. firms is more pronounced after 2010 than before, possibly reflecting greater sensitivity toward the role of CEO-Chairman in corporate governance issues. Interestingly, on average, during the period 2005-2015, listed U.S. firms have higher proportions of outside directors on the board than listed non-U.S. firms do, but listed U.S. firms are also more likely to have CEO-chairman duality relative to non-listed U.S. firms. Furthermore, the relatively more stable trend of CEO-Chairman duality in listed non-U.S. firms may imply that the corporate governance trend in the listed U.S. firms may not be followed closely by some listed non-U.S. firms.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Energy Finance

JEL Classification: G34, Q40

Suggested Citation:

Megginson, William L. and Sitorus, Romora Edward, Convergence in Corporate Governance Toward US Model? Evidence from Global Petroleum Industries (May 20, 2018). Convergence in Corporate Governance towards US Model? Evidence from the Global Petroleum Industry,” (with William L. Megginson), 2018, in Corporate Ownership and Control., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3333430
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,476
RANK
609,870
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies