Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Structure, Agency Cost and Corporate Governance: Theoretical Linkages Under the Operational Framework of a Modern Company

14 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2019

Zacharias Bragoudakis

Bank of Greece

Date Written: February 15, 2019

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to explain the interaction mechanism between the capital structure of a modern company, the implying agency cost that is raised when the company is expanding and the corporate governance system that should be implemented in order to achieve a smoothness of the implied internal friction. The corporate governance experience support that there is a lack of a systemic management at those problems. The above corporate problems reduce the maximization of the company value. It is argued that the failure to maximize the value of the company can be attributed to the endogenous weakness of corporate interconnection. This paper analyses the theory of corporate interconnection between its agents (shareholders, executive managers and bondholders), contributes to a better understanding of those issues and addressing them though a systematical and analytical framework.

Keywords: Agency Cost, Capital Structure, Corporate Governance, Corporate Finance, Ownership Structure, Value of Firms

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G40

Suggested Citation:

Bragoudakis, Zacharias, Capital Structure, Agency Cost and Corporate Governance: Theoretical Linkages Under the Operational Framework of a Modern Company (February 15, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3333796 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3333796
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,401
RANK
588,270
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies