Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Languages and Corporate Tax Avoidance

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2021

Ke Na

Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business

Wenjia Yan

The University of Hong Kong

Date Written: March 15, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of languages on corporate tax avoidance. We hypothesize and find that managers of firms in countries with languages that grammatically distinguish the future from the present (languages with a strong future time reference or FTR) perceive the potential future tax repayments and penalties to be more distant and therefore engage in more tax avoidance. Further tests exploiting the variation in language FTR within Switzerland and Belgium, which have different official languages in different regions but a single tax system, suggest that our findings are not driven by country-level differences in the tax system. We also provide evidence that U.S. firms with CEOs born in countries with strong FTR languages avoid more taxes than those with CEOs born in weak FTR countries, indicating that it is the CEO’s native tongue that affects tax avoidance. Collectively, our findings highlight the importance of social norms in understanding corporate tax strategies.

Keywords: Social Norms; Languages; Corporate Tax Avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Na, Ke and Yan, Wenjia, Languages and Corporate Tax Avoidance (March 15, 2017). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3334797
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,582
RANK
210,151
22 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies