Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting Cosmetic Earnings Management Using Benford’s Law: Evidence From Iran

10 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2019

Hamid Mohammadi

Yazd University

Leila Lotfi

University of Mazandaran (UMZ), Faculty of Economic and Administrative Sciences, Department of Accounting, Students

Date Written: February 15, 2019

Abstract

Cosmetic earnings management (CEM) is a way of manipulating financial results through small upward rounding of reported earnings. As a result, there will be more than expected zeros and less than expected nines as second digit of earnings numbers. Previous studies showed that cosmetic earnings management has occurred before implementation of Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the U.S and there has been a tendency to exercise it worldwide. This paper investigates the occurrence of CEM in the companies listed in Tehran stock exchange (TSE) during 1999 to 2013 by comparing observed distribution of earning numbers with a standard distribution, called Benford’s law. The results show that CEM has not occurred in TSE for the period 1999 to 2009. We suggest users of financial statements to pay attention to earning numbers as a start point for further investigations.

Keywords: Cosmetic Earnings Management (CEM), Benford’s Law, Earnings Management

Suggested Citation:

Mohammadi, Hamid and Lotfi, Leila, Detecting Cosmetic Earnings Management Using Benford’s Law: Evidence From Iran (February 15, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3334827 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3334827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Juha Kinnunen , Markku Koskela
Who is Miss World in Cosmetic Earnings Management? An Analysis of Small Upward Rounding of Net Income Numbers Among 18 Countries
Pages: 41 Posted: 4 Dec 2001
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Countries. Journal of International Accounting Research: Fall , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 39 - 68
Crossref
Charles E Jordan , Stanley J Clark
Detecting Cosmetic Earnings Management Using Benford's Law
The CPA Journal Posted: 2011-02
Marilyn Fischer , Kenneth Rosenzweig
Attitudes of Students and Accounting Practitioners Concerning the Ethical Acceptability of Earnings Management
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 433 - 444 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,465
RANK
384,900
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies