Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Quality and Corporate Social Disclosure: The Moderating Role of State and Foreign Ownership in Vietnamese Listed Firms

Hoang, T.C., Abeysekera, I. & Ma, S. 2019. Earnings Quality and Corporate Social Disclosure: The Moderating Role of State and Foreign Ownership in Vietnamese Listed Firms, Emerging Markets Finance and Trade. Vol. 55, No. 2, pp. 272-288 (DOI:10.1080/1540496X.2018.1521801).

34 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2019

Trang Hoang

Ton Duc Thang University

Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Ton Duc Thang University

Shiguang Ma

Independent

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

By investigating the effect of earnings quality on corporate social disclosure (CSD) in the context of Vietnam, this study tests whether firms uphold managerial opportunism based on the agency theory or social responsibility based on stakeholder theory. It also tests the moderating effect of state and foreign ownership on the relationship between earnings quality and CSD. This study finds that the long-term perspective argument dominates in the relationship between earnings quality and CSD, indicating that earnings quality is positively and significantly associated with CSD. The study also finds that the increasing proportion of shares held by the government in firms weakens the relationship between earnings quality and CSD.

Keywords: earnings quality, corporate social disclosure, agency theory, stakeholder theory

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hoang, Trang and Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com), Indra and Ma, Shiguang, Earnings Quality and Corporate Social Disclosure: The Moderating Role of State and Foreign Ownership in Vietnamese Listed Firms (2019). Hoang, T.C., Abeysekera, I. & Ma, S. 2019. Earnings Quality and Corporate Social Disclosure: The Moderating Role of State and Foreign Ownership in Vietnamese Listed Firms, Emerging Markets Finance and Trade. Vol. 55, No. 2, pp. 272-288 (DOI:10.1080/1540496X.2018.1521801). , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3335684
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,031
RANK
765,896
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies