Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SEC Comment Letters on Form S-4 and M&A Accounting Quality

Review of Accounting Studies 28 (2): 862-909.

65 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2019 Last revised: 31 May 2023

Bret A. Johnson

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Ling Lei Lisic

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Joon Seok Moon

California State University, Northridge

Mengmeng Wang

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Greensboro

Date Written: November 2021

Abstract

Prior research on SEC comment letters has almost exclusively focused on reviews of periodic filings, such as 10-Ks. Transactional filing reviews, such as those related to mergers and acquisitions (M&A), are a fundamental priority of the SEC and to which it dedicates significant resources. We help fill the void in the literature by examining the influence of SEC comment letters on one type of transactional filing, Form S-4, on the accounting quality of the newly merged entity. We find that S-4s that receive an SEC comment letter are less likely to have a restatement or a goodwill impairment after the M&A deal is completed. Our inferences remain the same using either an entropy-balanced sample or a propensity-score-matched sample based on firm and deal characteristics. These results are stronger for S-4 comment letters with higher intensity and M&A- specific comments. Finally, to explore plausible mechanisms and provide further context, we examine specific disclosure changes in S-4 amendments filed during the filing review process and find evidence that the improved M&A accounting quality is related to revisions to the pro forma financial statements, the total purchase price, and goodwill allocations. Overall, our findings provide evidence on the effectiveness of the SEC’s comment letter process related to M&A deals.



Keywords: SEC, Comment Letter, M&A, S-4, Accounting Quality

JEL Classification: G34, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Bret A. and Lisic, Ling Lei and Moon, Joon Seok and Wang, Mengmeng, SEC Comment Letters on Form S-4 and M&A Accounting Quality (November 2021). Review of Accounting Studies 28 (2): 862-909., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3335390 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3335390
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
A Amel-Zadeh , Y Zhang
The economic consequences of financial restatements: Evidence from the market for corporate control
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2015
E Anderson , E Ghysels , J Juergens
The impact of risk and uncertainty on expected returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 233 - 263 Posted: 2009
G Andrade , M Mitchell , E Stafford
New evidence and perspectives on mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
T Bates , M Lemmon
Breaking up is hard to do? An analysis of termination fee provisions and merger outcomes
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 469 - 504 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
661
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,942
RANK
91,111
3 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies