Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Independent Assurance on Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Reporting – A Case Study of Hong Kong

18 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2019

C.M. Miles Ko

The University of Hong Kong; School of Business, Hong Kong Baptist University

Date Written: February 18, 2019

Abstract

This paper aims to study the reliability and credibility of information disclosed in the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) report. ESG reporting is mandatory for all listed companies in Hong Kong and other countries in recent years; however, independent assurance on ESG reports is voluntary and there are a small portion of companies engaged in independent assurance provider and therefore, most of the companies may not disclose the holistic picture of what they are actually performed, i.e. green-washing, especially when the results on environment and society is negative. This is a qualitative case study based on comparative case study analysis of other countries through macro-level, i.e. government authorities to micro-level, i.e. external assurance provider. First, theoretical concepts regarding determinants of assured ESG reporting will be studied. Second, current literature, journal articles, reports from Big 4 and other accounting firms and websites from stock exchange and other relevant agency etc. will be investigated. Finally, a conclusion and recommendation based on the findings in this study will be drawn.

Keywords: Independent Assurance, Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Reporting

JEL Classification: M14, M42, Q56, G34

Suggested Citation:

Ko, Chi Ming, Independent Assurance on Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Reporting – A Case Study of Hong Kong (February 18, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3336656 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3336656
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Ey
EU Directive: disclosure of non-financial information and diversity information Posted: 2018
Hong Kong Exchange
Consultation Paper -Review of the Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide Posted: 2011
Your guide to ESG reporting Posted: 2018
Hong Kong Exchange
-ConsultationPape/Consultation-paper/cp201507.pdf REFERENCES Accountancy Europe
Consultation Paper -Review of the Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
952
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,702
RANK
55,992
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies