Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gender and Geography in the Boardroom: What Really Matters for Board Decisions?

57 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2019

Zinat S. Alam

University of North Texas, College of Business Administration, Department of Finance, Insurance Real Estate and Law

Mark A. Chen

Georgia State University - Robinson College of Business

Conrad S. Ciccotello

Daniels College of Business, University of Denver

Harley E. Ryan

Georgia State University - Department of Finance

Date Written: December 18, 2018

Abstract

Recent literature has shown that gender diversity in the boardroom seems to influence key monitoring decisions of boards. In this paper, we examine whether the observed relation between gender diversity and board decisions is due to a confounding factor, namely, directors’ geographic distance from headquarters. Using data on residential addresses for over 4,000 directors of S&P 1500 firms, we document that female directors cluster in large metropolitan areas and tend to live much farther away from headquarters compared to their male counterparts. We also reexamine prior findings in the literature on how boardroom gender diversity affects key board decisions. We use data on direct airline flights between U.S. locations to carry out an instrumental variables approach that exploits plausibly exogenous variation in both gender diversity and geographic distance. The results show that the effects of boardroom gender diversity on CEO compensation and CEO dismissal decisions found in the prior literature largely disappear when we account for geographic distance. Overall, our results support the view that gender-diverse boards are “tougher monitors” not because of gender differences per se, but rather because they are more geographically remote from headquarters and hence more reliant on hard information such as stock prices. The findings thus suggest that board gender policies, such as quotas, could have unintended consequences for some firms.

Keywords: Board of Directors, Gender, Geography

Suggested Citation:

Alam, Zinat S. and Chen, Mark A. and Ciccotello, Conrad S. and Ryan, Harley E., Gender and Geography in the Boardroom: What Really Matters for Board Decisions? (December 18, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3336445 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3336445
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
R Croson , U Gneezy , P Rey-Biel
Gender differences in risk aversion and competition". Special Issue
Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization , volume 83 , p. 1 - 172 Posted: 2012
R Croson , U Gneezy
Gender Differences in Preferences
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 47 , p. 448 - 474 Posted: 2009
Crossref
D Denis , D Denis , A Sarin
Ownership Structure and Top Executive Turnover
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 45 , p. 193 - 221 Posted: 1997
Crossref
C Eckel , P Grossman
Men, Women, and Risk Aversion: Experimental Evidence Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
389
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,383
RANK
174,026
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies