Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Juror Knowledge of Deductibility and Defendants’ Tax Rates on Punitive Damages Awards: Experimental Evidence

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper No. 19-05 https://doi.org/10.2308/JATA-19-007

39 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2019 Last revised: 24 Mar 2021

Bryan K. Church

Georgia Institute of Technology - Accounting Area

Karie Davis-Nozemack

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Lucien Joseph Dhooge

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Shankar Venkataraman

Bentley University - McCallum Graduate School of Business

Date Written: March 24, 2021

Abstract

The US Tax Code allows corporate defendants to treat punitive damages as a deductible expense. Legal scholars argue that tax-unaware jurors fail to recognize that deductibility significantly reduces defendants’ after-tax punishment, leading to an under-punishment problem. They propose that explicitly informing jurors about tax-deductibility could mitigate this problem. We conduct an experiment to test this claim. Compared to a control group of jurors who are told nothing about taxes, jurors who learn about tax-deductibility award higher damages when the defendant’s effective tax rate (ETR) is low, but not when ETR is high. Our results highlight the cost of tax avoidance (low ETRs) for firms in a previously unexamined setting. Our findings suggest that allowing jurors to consider tax-deductibility leads to higher damages only under a narrow set of circumstances, offering limited support for the under-punishment hypothesis. Our results should be of interest to scholars in accounting, law, and public policy.

Keywords: jurors, punitive damages, tax-deductibility, effective tax rates

JEL Classification: K10, M41

Suggested Citation:

Church, Bryan K. and Davis-Nozemack, Karie and Dhooge, Lucien Joseph and Venkataraman, Shankar, The Impact of Juror Knowledge of Deductibility and Defendants’ Tax Rates on Punitive Damages Awards: Experimental Evidence (March 24, 2021). Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper No. 19-05 https://doi.org/10.2308/JATA-19-007 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3336758 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3336758
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,791
RANK
508,348
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies