Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Risk Disclosure: A Review

US-China Law Review, 2017

39 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2019

Achintya Nath Sexena

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur, Vinod Gupta School of Management

Indrajit Dube

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur - Rajiv Gandhi School of Intellectual Property Law (RGSOIPL)

Chandra Sekhar Mishra

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur - Vinod Gupta School of Management

Date Written: November 27, 2017

Abstract

This paper reviews empirical studies and professional literature on corporate risk disclosures. Empirical studies done from the perspective of economic theory with application of statistical techniques have been growing over the years in the field of corporate disclosures. The very concept of risk and significance of corporate risk disclosures have been discussed in various studies and reports of professional bodies. Studies of corporate risk disclosures from the perspective of information asymmetry, utility as well as the perspective of economic theories of corporate governance have been steadily increasing over the last two decades or so. Associations between various firm characteristics and market behaviour have been sought to be studied by scholars in order to study the possible motivations behind risk disclosures as well as their usefulness to the end users of corporate disclosures viz. the shareholders, current and prospective investors, as well as the regulators. Methodologies from various disciplines like communications studies, econometrics, statistics, computer science etc. have been employed to study the phenomenon of corporate risk disclosure and its interaction with factors within and without the firm. Studies have been conducted for some jurisdictions in North America, Europe, Asia and Africa and scope exists for further study in more jurisdictions. The findings of empirical studies and discussions in professional literature are key aids for law and policy makers and researchers while formulating or proposing regulatory frameworks. This review paper aims to stimulate further research and debate on regulatory approach, policy and frameworks towards corporate risk disclosure based upon the conclusions drawn from empirical studies on corporate risk disclosure.

Keywords: Risk disclosure; Risk reporting; Corporate risk disclosure; Corporate risk reporting; Risk management; Corporate disclosure

JEL Classification: K22, G34, G32

Suggested Citation:

Sexena, Achintya Nath and Dube, Indrajit and Mishra, Chandra Sekhar, Corporate Risk Disclosure: A Review (November 27, 2017). US-China Law Review, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3336477
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Azlan Bchm Amran , Bin , Hassan
Risk Reporting: An Exploratory Study on Risk Management Disclosure in Malaysian Annual Reports, 24 MANAG
AUDIT. J , p. 39 - 57 Posted: 2009
Reporting Icaew
Business Risks: Meeting Expectations Posted: 2011
Crossref
G Stephen , Ryan
Risk Reporting Quality: Implications of Academic Research for Financial Reporting Policy, 42 ACCOUNT
BUS. RES , p. 295 - 324 Posted: 2012
Antti Miihkinen
What Drives Quality of Firm Risk Disclosure?
INT. J. ACCOUNT , volume 437 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,245
RANK
434,412
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies