Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Structure and the Cost of Debt: Evidence from Chinese Corporate Bond Market

36 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2019

Sris Chatterjee

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Xian Gu

Durham University Business School

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Haitian Lu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: February 04, 2019

Abstract

We study how firms’ ownership structure affects the cost of debt using evidence from Chinese corporate bond market. Our result shows state, institutional, and foreign ownership all help to reduce firms’ cost of debt. The effect of state ownership is more pronounced if the issuer is headquartered in stronger marketized provinces, operates in industries less dominant by state asset, and after the Party’s anti-corruption campaign. Institutional ownership matters more in low marketized environment especially for lower quality firms. Our evidence sheds light on the ownership-cost of debt nexus in a political economy where state and private firms face productivity and credit frictions, and how market environment interacts with corporate ownership on the cost of bond.

Keywords: government ownership, institutional holding, credit spreads, market force

JEL Classification: G12, G14, L14

Suggested Citation:

Chatterjee, Sris and Gu, Xian and Hasan, Iftekhar and Lu, Haitian, Ownership Structure and the Cost of Debt: Evidence from Chinese Corporate Bond Market (February 04, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3336609 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3336609
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,017
RANK
307,529
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies