Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dynamics of Deterioration in Internal Control Reported under SOX 404

International Review of Economics & Finance, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2019

Chunhua Chen

Shanghai Lixin University of Accounting and Finance

Tianze Li

University of Manitoba - Department of Accounting and Finance

Ruiqing Shao

Shanghai Lixin University of Commerce

Steven Xiaofan Zheng

University of Manitoba - Asper School of Business

Date Written: December 8, 2018

Abstract

We examine why many firms disclose internal control weaknesses (ICW) under section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act after previously reporting effective internal control (IC). We find that about half of the cross-sectional ICW determinant variables either do not change significantly from Year T-1 to Year T or change in a direction that is not expected to cause IC deterioration. The reported deterioration in IC can be attributed to increases in audit fee, management turnover, restatement, financial distress, firm size, and decrease in financial activities. Consistent with an agency hypothesis that managers try to manipulate the IC process when firm performance declines, the reported deterioration in IC is also associated with poor stock returns in the year before disclosure. ICW disclosure is more likely when poor stock return is combined with higher sensitivity of executive compensation to stock price change.

Keywords: Sarbanes-Oxley Act; Internal Control Weakness; Deterioration; Restatement; Agency Problem; Benchmark Adjusted Returns; Executive Compensation

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G30

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Chunhua and Li, Tianze and Shao, Ruiqing and Zheng, Steven Xiaofan, Dynamics of Deterioration in Internal Control Reported under SOX 404 (December 8, 2018). International Review of Economics & Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3337042
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,538
RANK
644,694
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies