Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Control Weakness, Investment and Firm Valuation

Finance Research Letters, Vol. 25, 2018

19 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2019

Gady Jacoby

College of Management Academic Studies; Seton Hall University; University of Manitoba - Department of Accounting and Finance

Yingqi Li

Shanghai Lixin University of Commerce

Tianze Li

University of Manitoba - Department of Accounting and Finance

Steven Xiaofan Zheng

University of Manitoba - Asper School of Business

Date Written: October 31, 2017

Abstract

We propose reduced investment as a potential explanation for why firms with internal control weakness (ICW) exhibit lower valuation relative to non-ICW firms. We show that ICW firms significantly reduce investment around ICW disclosure and also have poor stock performance. Additional evidence shows that many of the investment reductions have been announced during the year before ICW disclosure. A possible explanation for investment reductions is the higher costs of financial friction associated with ICW. Consistent with this explanation, we show that ICW firms with credit ratings do not reduce their investment as much and have much better stock performance than ICW firms without credit ratings.

Keywords: Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Internal Control Weakness, Stock Performance, q theory of investments, Benchmark Adjusted Returns, Credit Ratings

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G30

Suggested Citation:

Jacoby, Gady and Jacoby, Gady and Li, Yingqi and Li, Tianze and Zheng, Steven Xiaofan, Internal Control Weakness, Investment and Firm Valuation (October 31, 2017). Finance Research Letters, Vol. 25, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3337065
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,541
RANK
475,518
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies