Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Responsibilities within the Governance Space: A Study of the Role of the Company Secretary on Contemporary Boards

40 Pages Posted: 13 May 2019

Robyn McKenzie

Queensland University of Technology - School of Accountancy

Larelle Law Chapple

QUT School of Business; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Elisabeth Sinnewe

Queensland University of Technology

Sarah Osborne

Queensland University of Technology

Date Written: April 13, 2019

Abstract

Purpose - The purpose of this study is to investigate the role including the formal and informal activities of company secretaries on contemporary Australian boards, which has expanded with the increased liability of company secretaries.

Design/methodology/approach - This study utilizes eleven in-depth semi-structured interviews with company secretaries of organizations in the public, private, and not-for-profit sectors to examine the importance of organizational dynamics, boundary spanning capabilities, and skills necessary in the role construction of company secretaries as senior officers.

Findings - The company secretary accommodates the expansion of responsibilities from administrator to strategic advisor by using informal activities and developed social skills. Dual-role company secretaries (those combining the legal counsel or chief finance officer function in non-profit and government organizations) are acutely aware of setting the boundaries of responsibilities. The use of informal working spaces opens up the possibility for the company secretary to provide further influence as the organization’s gatekeeper.

Research limitations/implications - The number of interviews possibly limits this study; however, in the eleven interviews totaling over eight hours of data, participants made profound reflections on their particular role with their overall experiences well reflected in the commentary.

Practical implications - Participants discussed the expanded skill set required to effectively support individual board members, specifically dealing with the chair and CEO. Company secretaries also require higher order social skills of emotional intelligence and diplomacy attributes for their roles. Given the increased responsibility space of company secretaries, regulatory requirements for a formal corporate governance officer qualification may be needed.

Originality/value - This study expands the spatial-behavioural dynamics framework by McNulty & Stewart (2015) by examining role construction differences across sectors and the major internal and external influences that shape the company secretary role construction.

Keywords: board of directors, boundary spanning, company secretary, corporate governance, governance space

JEL Classification: G34, M49

Suggested Citation:

McKenzie, Robyn and Law Chapple, Larelle and Sinnewe, Elisabeth and Osborne, Sarah, Responsibilities within the Governance Space: A Study of the Role of the Company Secretary on Contemporary Boards (April 13, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3338309 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3338309
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Key Government Finance Statistics", 5512.0 -Government Finance Statistics , p. 2016 - 2033 Posted: 2018
Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission Posted: 2017
Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations Posted: 2019
T Beyes , C Steyaert
Spacing organization: non-representational theory and performing organizational space
Organization , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 61 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
770
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,897
RANK
74,791
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies