Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance, External Control, Public Governance, and Environmental Information Transparency: Evidence from Emerging Markets

Jacoby, G., Liu, M., Wang, Y., Wu, Z., & Zhang, Y. (2019). Corporate Governance, External Control, Public Governance, and Environmental Information Transparency: Evidence from Emerging Markets. Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions, & Money, 58, 269-283.

48 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2019

Gady Jacoby

College of Management Academic Studies; Seton Hall University; University of Manitoba - Department of Accounting and Finance

Mingzhi Liu

University of Manitoba - Asper School of Business; University of Manitoba - Department of Accounting and Finance

Yefeng Wang

University of Manitoba - Department of Business Administration

Zhenyu Wu

University of Manitoba

Ying Zhang

University of Manitoba - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: February 1, 2019

Abstract

Using a sample of 4,195 observations from 19 emerging markets, we investigate how internal corporate governance, external monitoring, and legal and business environment jointly affect a firm’s managerial effectiveness in environmental information transparency in an international setting. The empirical results show that in emerging economies, firms with stronger corporate governance mechanisms tend to adopt an external control strategy in order to mitigate owner-manager agency conflicts. Furthermore, internal corporate governance mechanisms are found to directly increase firm transparency concerning environmental damage and to indirectly do so through external control device. The legal and business environments of countries in which firms operate moderate these relationships.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, External Control, Legal Environment, Information Transparency

JEL Classification: G32; M48

Suggested Citation:

Jacoby, Gady and Jacoby, Gady and Liu, Mingzhi and Liu, Mingzhi and Wang, Yefeng and Wu, Zhenyu and Zhang, Ying, Corporate Governance, External Control, Public Governance, and Environmental Information Transparency: Evidence from Emerging Markets (February 1, 2019). Jacoby, G., Liu, M., Wang, Y., Wu, Z., & Zhang, Y. (2019). Corporate Governance, External Control, Public Governance, and Environmental Information Transparency: Evidence from Emerging Markets. Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions, & Money, 58, 269-283., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3340934
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Journal , volume 52 , p. 103 - 126
Crossref
U Bhattacharya , H Daouk
The world price of insider trading
Journal of Finance , volume 57 , p. 75 - 108 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M Biancardi , G Villani
International environmental agreements with developed and developing countries in a dynamic approach
Natural Resource Modeling , volume 27 , p. 338 - 359 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Are emerging markets the next developed markets?
BlackRock Investment Institute Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,837
RANK
409,437
2 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies