Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance of Banks, Performance, Market and Capital Structure

15 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2019

Themistokles G. Lazarides

Technological Educational Institute of Western Macedonia

Date Written: February 24, 2019

Abstract

Many scholars have linked Corporate Governance (CG) and performance or CG, capital structure of banks or market structure. The decision to use the capital market or debt in order to obtain the necessary capital to finance firms’ operations is a critical factor for the formulation of corporate environment, because it contributes to the ownership concentration or diffusion and to corporate risk exposure level.

The paper’s goal is to link all these three dimensions and to address the issue of whether performance and capital structure are the decisive factors of good corporate governance or vice versa and whether these dimensions are the drivers of banks’ financial health, strategic robustness and survival effectiveness. Furthermore, the paper is seeking to detect the differences (if any) among banking systems across Europe.

To do that a double sample is selected (covering the period from 2004 to 2013). The first sample is comprised by European banks that merged. The second sample is comprised by European banks that survived the last merger & acquisition wave and the systemic shock of the double crises of 2002 and 2008.

A combined ratio of performance (ROAA or ROEA) and debt to equity (DE or debt aggravation) is used to determine if there is a connection between capital structure and CG quality of banks. Panel data methodology is used.

The econometric results show that there are no significant differences between the strata that are used for this research. There is no common factor or driver between the banking systems of Europe. This is an indication that the convergence theory of corporate governance systems is yet confirmed.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Europe, Performance, Capital Structure, Banks

JEL Classification: K22, K42, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Lazarides, Themistokles G., Corporate Governance of Banks, Performance, Market and Capital Structure (February 24, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3340787 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3340787
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
The Cross-National Diversity of Corporate Governance: Dimensions and Determinants
Academy of Management Review , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Y Amihud , G De Long , A Saunders
The effects of cross-border bank mergers on bank risk and value
Journal of International Money and Finance , volume 21 , p. 857 - 877 Posted: 2002
Crossref
B H ; Uk Baltagi , M Becht
Strong Stockholders, Weak Owners and the Need for European Mandatory Disclosure
Executive Report Posted: 1997-10
P Beitel , D Schiereck
Value creation of domestic and cross-border M&A in the European Banking market
ICFAI Journal of Mergers & Acquisitions , issue 3 , p. 7 - 29 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,370
RANK
478,373
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies