Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance in Banks: Systematic Literature Review and Meta-analysis

Corporate Ownership & Control / Volume 16, Issue 1, Autumn 2018

14 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2019

Valentina Lagasio

Sapienza University of Rome

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

This paper provides a two steps investigation of the literature on banking corporate governance. We firstly perform a systematic literature review on the academics papers focused on risk management, compensation and ownership structure of banks. Then we run a meta-analysis investigation over more than 2,500 observations to clarify the understanding of the relationship with performance and risk in banks. The sub-group analysis related with bank performance shows a clear and significant finding: Board ownership, CEO ownership and Controlling shareholder enhance the performance of banks. Conversely, State ownership is negatively associated with bank performance. Results of the whole investigation and directions for scholars are also discussed.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Banks, Systematic Review, Meta-Analysis

JEL Classification: G20, G21, G30, G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Lagasio, Valentina, Corporate Governance in Banks: Systematic Literature Review and Meta-analysis (2018). Corporate Ownership & Control / Volume 16, Issue 1, Autumn 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3343622
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
J C Acrey , W R Mccumber , T H T Nguyen
CEO incentives and bank risk
Journal of Economics and Business , volume 63 , issue 5 , p. 456 - 471 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Renée B. Adams , Hamid Mehran
Is Corporate Governance Different for Bank Holding Companies?
Pages: 40 Posted: 1 May 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A E Ades , G Lu , J P T Higgins
The interpretation of random-effects meta-analysis in decision models
Medical Decision Making , volume 25 , issue 6 , p. 646 - 654 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
690
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,502
RANK
86,200
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies