Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Boardroom Centrality and Firm Performance: Evidence from Private Firms

Nordic Journal of Business, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2019 Last revised: 12 Dec 2022

Mansoor Afzali

Hanken School of Economics

Jukka Kettunen

Copenhagen Business School; Hanken School of Economics

Date Written: December 8, 2022

Abstract

We study the link between boardroom centrality and operating performance in private firms. We argue that the centrality-performance relationship is stronger for private firms whose increased connectedness is likely to provide certification benefits, decrease transaction costs by reducing information asymmetry, and improve access to critical resources. Using a sample of Finnish and Swedish private firms, we find that private firms with more central boards have better performance, growth, and efficiency than private firms with less central boards. Moreover, in a sample of private and public firms, we find that private firms with greater eigenvector centrality outperform size-matched public firms. Subsample analyses further show that networks are crucial for young firms. This is consistent with the view that better-connected directors provide firms with informational resources when they need them the most. Overall, our findings show that boardroom interlocks are positively associated with immediate economic benefits to private firms.

Keywords: Boardroom centrality, social networks, firm performance, firm growth, firm efficiency, private firms, public firms

JEL Classification: G3, G14, L14

Suggested Citation:

Afzali, Mansoor and Kettunen, Jukka, Boardroom Centrality and Firm Performance: Evidence from Private Firms (December 8, 2022). Nordic Journal of Business, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3344238 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3344238
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
L F Ackert , R Huang , G G Ramírez
Information opacity, credit risk, and the design of loan contracts for private firms. Financial Markets
Institutions and Instruments , volume 16 , issue 5 , p. 221 - 242 Posted: 2007
M Afzali , G Colak , M Fu
Economic uncertainty and corruption: Evidence from public and private firms
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 57 Posted: 2021
M Afzali , M Martikainen
Network centrality and value relevance of insider trading: Evidence from Europe
The Financial Review , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 793 - 819 Posted: 2021
N Aktas , E Croci , D Petmezas
Is working capital management value-enhancing? Evidence from firm performance and investments
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 98 - 113 Posted: 2015
Load more
2 Citations
Arash Faizabad , Mohammad Refakar , Claudia Champagne
Corporate, social, political connections and corporate governance: A review
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 192 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Mansoor Afzali , Minna Martikainen
Network centrality and value relevance of insider trading: Evidence from Europe
Financial Review , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 793 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
304
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,346
RANK
228,376
2 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies