Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revealing or Concealing? The Competitive Landscape of Bad News Disclosure

58 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2019 Last revised: 11 Jan 2025

Rui Dai

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS); The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen (CUHK-Shenzhen)

Rui Duan

McMaster University - DeGroote School of Business

Lilian Ng

York University - Schulich School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: May 11, 2020

Abstract

We investigate how competitive threats in the product market shape a company's strategic disclosure of adverse news. Our results show that when firms face strong competition from existing competitors, they are more inclined to conceal unfavorable information from key stakeholders, including competitors, customers, and investors, with diverse motives. The threats of new entrants in the competitive landscape pushes them to reveal more adverse news, a strategy rooted in fending off these competitive challenges and building stronger customer links. Overall, our study offers a reconciliation of the diverse findings surrounding competition and disclosure strategies evident in prior research. We highlight that the relationship between competition and corporate disclosure is not anchored solely in competitive deterrence but is also influenced by other strategic considerations shaping this interplay.

Keywords: Competition, Common Customers, Crash Risk, Bad News Disclosure

JEL Classification: G11, G23, G32

Suggested Citation:

Dai, Rui and Duan, Rui and Ng, Lilian, Revealing or Concealing? The Competitive Landscape of Bad News Disclosure (May 11, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3345300 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3345300
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
1 Citations
Xiaofang Ma , Wenming Wang , Jiangang Wu , Wenlan Zhang
Corporate customer concentration and stock price crash risk
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 119 , p. 105903 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
468
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,273
RANK
140,484
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies