Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR in the Banking Sector: A Legitimacy Approach to the Shareholders’ and Stakeholders’ Debate

Marketing and Branding Research 4 (2017) 280-291

12 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2019

Charbel Chedrawi

Saint Joseph University of Beirut

Souheir Osta

Saint Joseph University of Beirut

Date Written: March 2, 2017

Abstract

Globalization increased calls for corporations to use firms’ resources to alleviate a wide variety of social problems taking into consideration that existing governments are unable or unwilling to deal with such problems. In this context, corporate social responsibility (CSR) in the banking sector became a strategic tool of legitimacy in parallel to the recognition of stakeholders’ interests keeping the primacy of shareholders’ interests. This article studies CSR in the Lebanese banking sector through Suchman’s (1995) legitimacy approach to the shareholders’ and stakeholders’ debate. Using a qualitative approach, this paper discloses how the banking strategy in terms of CSR could respond to the process of legitimacy within the debate: “creating value for stakeholders creates value for shareholders”; and reveals how normative considerations are likely to modify substantially banks’ behavior and practices

Suggested Citation:

Chedrawi, Charbel and Osta, Souheir, CSR in the Banking Sector: A Legitimacy Approach to the Shareholders’ and Stakeholders’ Debate (March 2, 2017). Marketing and Branding Research 4 (2017) 280-291 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3345442
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,271
RANK
339,258
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies