Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Architecture in the Different Life Cycle Stages

Journal of Corporate Finance Research, Vol. 12, No. 4, pp. 11-35, 2017

25 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2019

Anastasia Stepanova

HSE University

Izabella Kazaryan

National Research University Higher School of Economics (Moscow)

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

In this article, we consider the relation between capital structure, corporate governance, ownership structure and performance of a company depending on its life cycle stages. The central aim of this study is to define the most sustainable and effective types of financial architecture by using the cluster and regression analysis. This study describes the three stages of the life cycle of a company: the first stage is growth, followed by maturity and finally the stage of decline, but for our research we only examine companies in the maturity stage. The research includes 11 countries from emerging markets and the primary sample includes 4,675 non-financial companies from 2011 to 2015. As the measure of a company’s performance, we used Tobin’s Q coefficient and total shareholder return. The primary sample was divided into the 3 life cycle stages by using the approach of comparing the growth rates of revenues at the average rate of revenue growth in the industry (Cao, 2010); however, we did not consider the earlier stages of the life cycle due to the specificity of the sample. A cluster analysis was performed on the sample for the growth and maturity stages in order to show the difference between the clusters that depends on the life cycle stages. We analyzed the clusters’ sustainability by regression analysis in each cluster. We described the influence of the financial architecture component on market performance. The results indicate more than one sustainable cluster and demonstrate the influence of the ownership structure, capital structure and the board characteristics on the company’s efficiency depending on the stage of the life cycle, which proves there is a need to take into account the issues of the life cycle. The managers and directors of a company can use results of this study when developing a company’s strategy, especially during the transition period from one life cycle to another.

Keywords: capital structure; ownership structure; emerging markets; cluster analysis; life cycle stages; performance

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Stepanova, Anastasia N. and Kazaryan, Izabella, Financial Architecture in the Different Life Cycle Stages (2017). Journal of Corporate Finance Research, Vol. 12, No. 4, pp. 11-35, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3345015
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
J Abor
The Effect of Capital Structure on Profitability: An Empirical Analysis of Listed Firms in Ghana
The Journal of Risk Finance , volume 6 , p. 438 - 445 Posted: 2005
Crossref
I Adizes
Organizational Passages -Diagnosing and Treating Lifecycle Problems of Organizations
Organizational Dynamics , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 25 Posted: 1979
Crossref
I Adizes
Corporаte Lifecycles: How аnd Why Corporаtions Growth аnd Die аnd Whаt to Do аbout It Posted: 1988
J Aharony , H Falk , N Yehuda
Corporate Life Cycle and the Relative Value-Relevance of Cash Flow Versus Accrual Financial Information Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,097
RANK
889,053
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies