Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Corporate Financial Architecture of Innovative Companies Differ? The Evidence From USA

Journal of Corporate Finance Research, Vol. 12, No. 4, pp. 7-28, 2018

22 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2019

Irina Ivashkovskaya

National Research University Higher School of Economics (Moscow)

Sergei Evdokimov

National Research University Higher School of Economics (Moscow)

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

Each company operates within the framework of interrelated structures: ownership, corporate governance and capital structure. The particular combination of these dimensions determines the corporate financial architecture of the company. Despite the growing body of literature on the challenges of the knowledge economy to the structural dimensions of companies, still little is known about the financial architecture of innovative firms. At the same time it is widely recognized that such companies substantially differ from traditional types of businesses in their business models and dynamics. Meanwhile, the financial architecture of a company generates the distribution of the incentives to enhance innovations affecting interests and risk-sharing among stakeholders. To address the lack of research into the interaction of corporate structures and their distinct features in innovative companies, this paper aims at identifying the robust financial architecture patterns of innovative companies. Using a sample of more than 1,300 publicly traded US-based manufacturing companies, we use an agglomerative hierarchical clustering method to identify relevant patterns and compare them to the firms which are not considered to be ‘knowledge intensive’. The empirical results allow the identification of seven robust financial architecture patterns within innovative companies. Our findings show that the first major difference between the financial architecture of innovative and non-innovative firms is in the higher role of activist institutional investors in the ownership. The second notable difference is related to CEO-duality, which plays a significant role in corporate governance only in innovative firms. Moreover, innovative companies are less leveraged than non-innovative firms. In addition, mature innovative companies demonstrate better financial performance.

Keywords: innovative firms, ownership structure, governance, financial architecture, companies’ performance, cluster analysis

JEL Classification: G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Ivashkovskaya, Irina and Evdokimov, Sergei, Does Corporate Financial Architecture of Innovative Companies Differ? The Evidence From USA (2018). Journal of Corporate Finance Research, Vol. 12, No. 4, pp. 7-28, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3346380
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
L A Bettencourt , A L Ostrom , S W Brown , R I Roundtree
Client co-production in knowledgeintensive business services
California Management Review , volume 44 , issue 4 Posted: 2002
Crossref
K Laursen , A Salter
Open for innovation: The role of openness in explaining innovation performance among U.K. manufacturing firms
Strategic Management Journal , volume 27 , issue 2 Posted: 2006
Crossref
De Jong , J P Vermeulen , P A
Determinants of product innovation in small firms: A comparison across industries
International Small Business Journal , volume 24 , issue 6 , p. 587 - 609 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S Shane
Cultural influences on national rates of innovation
Journal of Business Venturing , volume 8 , issue 1 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,081
RANK
682,509
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies