Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Behavioral Motives of the Payout Policy Choice: Literature Review

Journal of Corporate Finance Research, Vol. 11, No. 4, pp. 93-112, 2017

10 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2019

Artem Anilov

National Research University Higher School of Economics (Moscow)

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

The question of the significance of the payout policy in terms of value creation has been in the works for over 50 years now. These endeavors have led to the establishment of some classic theories that explain the different patterns in a company’s payout policy choices such as the signaling theory, the agency costs theory, the clientele theory and the catering theory. However, the results are not always consistent among different authors, which means that these theories cannot be used universally. Results vary widely among different samples and different time periods. The classic theories assume that all agents on the market are fully rational, which is rather unrealistic since an agent’s actions cannot always be explained by financial theories. These two facts led to the development of the behavioral explanation for the payout policy choice. This approach focuses on the behavioral characteristics of managers that are responsible for the decision-making process in the company. Thus, the payout policy, according to this approach, is considered to be a function of the behavioral characteristics of managers (overconfidence, optimism, risk preferences, etc.) rather than a function of the financial variables. The main difficulty here is how to measure the behavior of managers.This particular article reviews the research that covers the classic and modern theories of payout policy. This article covers the logic of the development of different views on the payout policy. The authors cover articles that test different theories, analyze the main results and conclusions, and investigate the reasons for the development of these theories. The main focus has been on the behavioral approach, which is considered to be the most fruitful direction for future research. The authors also cover the methodology of the existing papers, the variables that measure behavioral characteristics and the results.

Keywords: payout policy, behavioral finance, signaling, agency theory, clientele theory

JEL Classification: G35

Suggested Citation:

Anilov, Artem, Behavioral Motives of the Payout Policy Choice: Literature Review (2017). Journal of Corporate Finance Research, Vol. 11, No. 4, pp. 93-112, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3346275
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
J Aharony , I Swary
Quarterly Dividend and Earnings Announcements and Stockholders' Returns: An Empirical Analysis
Journal of Finance , volume 35 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 1980
Crossref
F Allen , A Bernardo , I Welch
A Theory of Dividends Based on Tax Clientele
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 2499 - 2536 Posted: 2000
Crossref
K L Alli , A Q Khan , G G Ramirez
Determinants of Corporate Dividend Policy: A Factorial Analysis
The Financial Review , volume 28 , p. 523 - 547 Posted: 1993
Crossref
P C Andreou , I Cooper , I De Olalla , C Louca
Managerial Overconfidence and the Buyback Anomaly: Working paper Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
938
RANK
897,300
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies