Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Structure Management by Share Repurchase for Companies in Emerging Markets

Journal of Corporate Finance Research, Vol. 12, No. 3, pp. 39-59, 2018

21 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2019

Julia Kulik

Moscow State University, Faculty of Economics

Svetlana Makarova

Moscow State University - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

According to foreign research into developed markets, share repurchasing influences the speed of adjustment of companies’ capital structure to the target level. It is worth noting that the number of such research studies for emerging markets is rather small.

On the basis of an empirical study of a selection of 275 companies from BRICS countries involved in share repurchase for the period of 2005 to 2015 we prove here that share repurchase is an efficient method of correcting an existing capital structure, aligning it to approximate a target level in all BRICS countries. It should be noted that in accordance with our results, companies from Brazil and Russia show the highest speed of adjustment (within 63–80%). This indicates that these companies are able to achieve the target structure within a very short period. Companies from the other countries (India, China, and South Africa) also show a rather high rate of the speed of adjustment (in the range of 44 to 49%).

It is worth noting that apart from the share repurchase itself, characteristic features of the companies (as well as special characteristics of local economic factors where they are relevant) influence the speed of adjustment to the target capital structure. We also found out that the most significant factors which have positive effects on the speed of adjustment are the company size, its growth prospects, share of repurchased shares, economic growth rate, inflation rate in the country which adversely affect to a great extent the speed of adjustment to the target capital structure. For Russian companies the most significant determinants are the company size, share of repurchased shares and inflation rate.

An assessment of the speed of adjustment to the target capital structure of companies repurchasing shares showed that for Russian companies (for a balance sheet leverage) and for South African companies (for a market financial leverage) the speed of adjustment is not significant, however in general the countries selection and each sub-selection shows that BRICS countries’ companies are prone to adjust to the target capital structure quicker when the financial leverage is lower than the target value, while companies with an excess debt load optimize much slower.

On the basis of the research results we offer an algorithm pertaining to capital structure management for the companies acting in emerging markets using share repurchase in an open market.

Keywords: capital structure, capital structure determinants, partial adjustment model, share repurchase, speed of adjustment, target capital structure

JEL Classification: G35, G32

Suggested Citation:

Kulik, Julia and Makarova, Svetlana, Capital Structure Management by Share Repurchase for Companies in Emerging Markets (2018). Journal of Corporate Finance Research, Vol. 12, No. 3, pp. 39-59, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3346360
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
On joint stock companies" of 26 , volume 12 Posted: 1995
208-FZ. Adopted by the State Duma on November , volume 24 Posted: 1995
Crossref
World Bank database
Crossref
M S Kokoreva , S M Yulova
The influence of internal and institutional factors on the speed of adjustment to the target capital structure in developed and emerging markets
Korporativnye finansy = Journal of Corporate Finance Research , volume 7 , issue 4 , p. 4 - 18 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,036
RANK
461,853
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies