Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does It Pay to Be Forthcoming? Evidence from CSR Disclosure and Equity Market Liquidity

33 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2019

Jared F. Egginton

Boise State University - College of Business & Economics

Garrett McBrayer

Boise State University

Date Written: August 1, 2018

Abstract

We examine the impact of corporate social responsibility (CSR) disclosure strategies on equity market liquidity. Using data on CSR disclosure from Bloomberg, we find that equity market liquidity improves as firms increase their CSR disclosure transparency. Specifically, firms with more transparent CSR disclosure strategies have narrower spreads and exhibit improvements in common measures of equity market liquidity. Additionally, we document that improvements in equity market liquidity occur contemporaneously with changes in firms’ CSR disclosure strategies suggesting that markets respond to the transparent disclosure of CSR initiatives without necessarily knowing the ultimate efficacy of the initiative itself. We condition our findings on firm transparency and provide evidence that CSR disclosure transparency acts to reduce information asymmetry thus acting as the mechanism to improve equity market liquidity. Overall, our results suggest that CSR disclosure transparency leads to reductions in asymmetric information, ultimately making financial markets more equitable.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, voluntary disclosure, equity market liquidity, information asymmetry, financial market equality

JEL Classification: G10, G14, M41, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Egginton, Jared Frank and McBrayer, Garrett, Does It Pay to Be Forthcoming? Evidence from CSR Disclosure and Equity Market Liquidity (August 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3347241 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3347241
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
R Ravi , Y Hong
Firm opacity and financial market information asymmetry
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 25 , p. 83 - 94 Posted: 2014
Crossref
C Reverte
The impact of better corporate social responsibility disclosure on the cost of equity capital
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 19 , p. 253 - 272 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Richardson , M Welker
Social disclosure, financial disclosure and the cost of equity capital. Accounting
Organizations, and Society , volume 26 , p. 597 - 616 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Roman , S Hayibor , B Agle
The relationship between social and financial performance: Repainting a portrait
Business & Society , volume 38 , p. 109 - 125 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,362
RANK
405,251
7 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies