Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Diversity and Earnings News Dissemination on Twitter in the UK

Journal of Management and Governance, 23(3), 715-734

Posted: 1 Apr 2019 Last revised: 22 Sep 2019

Moataz El-Helaly

School of Business, The American University in Cairo

Ahmed Ayman

Independent

Nermeen F. Shehata

The American University in Cairo

Date Written: August 1, 2019

Abstract

We examine corporate adoption of Twitter by UK firms and provide the first empirical evidence on the association between board diversity, as measured by the proportion of foreign and women directors, and the decision to disseminate news in general and earnings news in particular through Twitter. We measure social media dissemination by tracing Twitter posts (tweets) by UK firms between 2013 and 2015. Utilizing the unique data by Spencer and Stuart on board characteristics, we investigate the relationship between diversity and earnings dissemination in top 150 UK companies between 2013 and 2015. We find that our board diversity measures are positively associated with using Twitter to disseminate earnings at least once, with the frequency of using Twitter to disseminate quarterly earnings, and with the number of tweets disseminating financial information. We also provide evidence that the presence of foreign directors is associated with earlier adoption of Twitter as an information dissemination channel. The results are robust to controlling for firm-level characteristics, other board structure variables, and industry and year-fixed effects. Additionally, we show that firms audited by Big Four auditors are more likely to use Twitter to disseminate earnings information. Our findings show the importance of diverse boards in using Twitter as an alternative or additional information dissemination channel.

Keywords: Dissemination, Disclosure, Social media, Twitter

JEL Classification: G34, M10, M41

Suggested Citation:

El-Helaly, Moataz and Ayman, Ahmed and Shehata, Nermeen F., Board Diversity and Earnings News Dissemination on Twitter in the UK (August 1, 2019). Journal of Management and Governance, 23(3), 715-734, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3348271
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
971
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies