Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Looking your Worst: Downward Earnings Management after Activist Challenges

49 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2019

Mary-Hunter McDonnell

The Wharton School - The University of Pennsylvania

Spencer Pierce

Florida State University - College of Business

Jake Thornock

Brigham Young University

Date Written: March 8, 2019

Abstract

Prior work suggests that firms targeted by contentious activist challenges respond with impression management, promoting positive images of their social performance to maintain audience support. In this paper, we propose that targeted firms face simultaneous incentives to downwardly manage audience members’ impression of their economic performance through negative earnings management. We draw on work in accounting, law, and sociology that suggests that profitability operates as an aggravating cue in punitive assessments and can augment the likelihood of expensive regulatory interventions during periods of political uncertainty. Accordingly, we suggest that firms are motivated to manage their earnings downward when facing contentious challenges. We test this through a longitudinal analysis of firms’ discretionary accruals-based earnings management over the decade spanning 1997-2007. In line with our theory, we find that contentious challenges are associated with significant down-ward adjusted earnings management, and that this is moderated by factors indicating a firm’s general level of non-market risk, including its reputation, the level of political attention directed to it, and regulators’ capacity for monitoring its financial statements.

Keywords: earnings management, social movements, impression management, reputation, non-market strategy

Suggested Citation:

McDonnell, Mary-Hunter and Pierce, Spencer and Thornock, Jacob, Looking your Worst: Downward Earnings Management after Activist Challenges (March 8, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3349387 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3349387
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
M J Ahearne , J P Boichuk , C J Chapman , T J Steenburgh
Real Earnings Management in Sales
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 5 , p. 1233 - 1266 Posted: 2016
Crossref
C Anthony
Analytical tools and the practices of validation in the production of strategic knowledge Posted: 2018
P G Badolato , D C Donelson , M Ege
Audit committee financial expertise and earnings management: The role of status
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 208 - 230 Posted: 2014
Crossref
S Banerjee , M Humphery-Jenner , V Nanda
Restraining overconfident CEOs through improved governance: Evidence from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 10 , p. 2812 - 2858 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
371
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,464
RANK
183,491
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies