Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Spillover Effect of SEC Comment Letters through Audit Firms

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming.

58 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2019 Last revised: 2 Jan 2024

Kenneth L. Bills

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Ryan Cating

University of Central Arkansas

Chenxi Lin

University of Oklahoma

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

Date Written: December 28, 2023

Abstract

This study examines whether auditors serve as a conduit for disseminating Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) views on reporting and disclosure matters as the result of being privy to clients’ SEC comment letters. This examination is important because auditors’ involvement in and private access to clients’ comment letters can enhance the timeliness of dissemination and constrain reporting or disclosure choices that diverge from SEC views. Among clients with a greater expectation of impaired goodwill that do not receive a comment letter with a goodwill-related comment, we find a greater likelihood of goodwill impairment when the audit firm serving the client is exposed to more goodwill-related comments received by other clients. Further examination of the channels of dissemination through the audit firm indicates that the results are driven by auditor exposure through other clients of the audit office in the same industry, the channel with the greatest exposure to the audit team, and clients in different audit offices in different industries, the channel with the broadest potential for spillover (i.e., the greatest number of other audit firm clients). Importantly, we observe these effects after controlling for alternative sources of spillover and when auditor comment letter exposure is not yet publicly available, suggesting that auditors’ private access to client comment letters facilitates timely spillover. Further analyses indicate that spillover through industry clients within the audit office is also apparent in goodwill footnote disclosure.

Keywords: SEC, comment letter, spillover effect, audit quality, auditor competency

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Bills, Kenneth L. and Cating, Ryan and Lin, Chenxi and Seidel, Timothy A., The Spillover Effect of SEC Comment Letters through Audit Firms (December 28, 2023). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3349191 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3349191
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
D R Ayres , J L Campbell , J A Chyz , J E Shipman
Do financial analysts compel firms to make accounting decisions? Evidence from goodwill impairments
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 1214 - 1251 Posted: 2019
D R Ayres , T L Neal , L C Reid , J E Shipman
Auditing goodwill in the post-amortization era: challenges for auditors
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 82 - 107 Posted: 2019
R Ballestero , J J Schmidt
Auditor involvement in the SEC comment letter process: Client advocate, investor protector or both? Working paper Posted: 2022
M Baugh , R Schmardebeck
Auditor style and common disclosure issues: Evidence from SEC comment letters
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 5 , p. 61 - 97 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
901
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,302
RANK
60,468
9 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies