Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Value in Commonly Uncertain Times: The Divergent Effects of Corporate Governance and CSR

39 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2019

Richard Borghesi

University of South Florida

Kiyoung Chang

University of South Florida Sarasota-Manatee - College of Business

Ying Li

University of Washington, Bothell - Business

Date Written: March 4, 2019

Abstract

Economic uncertainty disrupts firms’ ability to create value. Most related literature examines how various organizational characteristics affect value under extreme conditions – the global financial crisis. However, recent work in quantifying economic uncertainty now makes it possible to take a more nuanced approach in investigating the conditions under which this value reduction can be mitigated during more ‘commonly uncertain’ periods. In this paper we analyze the effects of corporate governance mechanisms and social responsibility investments on Tobin’s q across 13 years and 40 countries. Evidence suggests that shareholder-centric corporate governance policies restrict board and executive flexibility during uncertain times, and therefore stifle their ability to react effectively to adverse macroeconomic changes. We also find that CSR initiatives serve as insurance in that they preserve value under uncertainty by acting as a reservoir of social capital.

Keywords: economic policy uncertainty, corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, firm value

JEL Classification: G28, G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Borghesi, Richard and Chang, Kiyoung and Li, Ying, Firm Value in Commonly Uncertain Times: The Divergent Effects of Corporate Governance and CSR (March 4, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3349426 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3349426
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
* Geput , Iot
Crossref
Geput*top5
* Geput , Indep
Crossref
* Geput , Ceo
Load more
4 Citations
Richard Borghesi , Kiyoung Chang
Economic Policy Uncertainty and Firm Value: The Mediating Role of Intangible Assets and R&D
Applied Economics Letters, Forthcoming · 11 Pages · Posted: 30 Jan 2020 · Downloads: 171
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
He Xiao , Xin Chen , Heyang Fang , Yifei Zhang
Insider Share Pledging and Firm Value Consequences under the COVID-19
Applied Economics, 53:56, 6522-6534 (2021) · 26 Pages · Posted: 4 Jan 2022 · Last revised: 20 Mar 2023 · Downloads: 45
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kevin Krieger , Nathan Mauck
Opportunity Costs and the Value of Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from Firm Dividend Policy
RIBAF-D-22-00513 · 10 Pages · Posted: 30 Jul 2022 · Last revised: 21 Mar 2023 · Downloads: 111
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Enrik Dautaj
Exploring the Relationship between Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Value: The Role of Market Volatility and Investor Sentiment
63 Pages · Posted: 22 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 342
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,164
RANK
564,093
4 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies