Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The benefits of auditor involvement in the SEC comment letter process

63 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2019 Last revised: 14 Mar 2024

Ryan Ballestero

Kent State University

Jaime J. Schmidt

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: March 10, 2024

Abstract

Auditors are often criticized for providing limited value, yet audit committees state that auditors provide valuable business insights to their clients. In this study, we leverage the SEC comment letter process to explore whether auditors add value to their clients outside of the scope of the traditional financial statement audit. Using SEC comment letter correspondence that copies the auditor to identify greater auditor involvement in the comment letter process, we examine when auditors are more involved and how their increased involvement affects comment letter resolution. We find that clients are more likely to involve auditors when there is a need for auditor expertise. Increased auditor involvement is associated with quicker company responses to the SEC, though overall time to reach resolution is only reduced when more experienced auditors are involved. In addition, we find that experienced auditor involvement is associated with a greater (lower) likelihood that the comment letter is resolved through a revision (restatement). Further, we find that these outcomes are not associated with a company’s likelihood to subsequently restate the financial statements, suggesting that the resolutions were likely appropriate. Overall, our results suggest that experienced auditor involvement in the SEC comment letter process benefits clients without impairing subsequent financial reporting quality.

Keywords: SEC comment letters; audit partners; audit quality

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ballestero, Ryan and Schmidt, Jaime J., The benefits of auditor involvement in the SEC comment letter process (March 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3350730 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3350730
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Code of Professional Conduct and Bylaws -As of June 1 Posted: 2013
M H Bazerman , K P Morgan , G F Loewenstein
The impossibility of auditor independence
Sloan Management Review , volume 38 , p. 89 - 94 Posted: 1997
J C Bol , C Estep , F Moers , M E Peecher
The role of tacit knowledge in auditor expertise and human capital development
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 1205 - 1252 Posted: 2018
C M Boland , S L Tate , A Zimmerman
The Effects of Straddling: Evidence From Audit Partners Auditing Both Public Companies and Nonprofit Organizations Posted: 2021
Load more
10 Citations
Lauren M. Cunningham , Jacob J. Leidner
The SEC Filing Review Process: A Survey and Future Research Opportunities*
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 1653 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Reza Hesarzadeh , Ameneh Bazrafshan , Saher Aqel
AUDIT COMMITTEE AND REGULATORY SCRUTINY
Revista de Administração de Empresas , volume 62 , issue 6 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Xiaomin Hao , Yonghai Wang
Does preventive regulation reduce stock price synchronicity? Evidence from Chinese annual report comment letters
China Journal of Accounting Research , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 100203 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Lauren M. Cunningham , Jacob Justus Leidner
The SEC Filing Review Process: A Survey and Future Research Opportunities
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · Posted: 16 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 3 Nov 2021 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
567
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,090
RANK
110,945
10 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies