Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management: New Evidence From Bank Holding Companies

32 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2019

Tarun K. Mukherjee

University of New Orleans

Elisabeta Pana

Central Connecticut State University

Date Written: January 14, 2019

Abstract

In this paper, we investigate the role played by the organizational structure of bank holding companies in the earnings management of bank subsidiaries. Our results suggest that bank holding companies manage their subsidiaries to optimize the reporting outcome at the consolidated level. We find that parent characteristics explain the earnings management of subsidiaries over and above the characteristics of subsidiaries. We also find that subsidiary’s integration, the public status of bank holding companies and the distance between subsidiaries and headquarters explain the proclivity of bank subsidiaries to engage in earnings management. Our results yield important insights on the drivers of earnings management within bank holding companies and highlight the need for their integration in regulatory design.

Keywords: financial institutions, earnings management, financial crisis

JEL Classification: G01, G11, G21, G28, M40

Suggested Citation:

Mukherjee, Tarun K. and Pana, Elisabeta, Earnings Management: New Evidence From Bank Holding Companies (January 14, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3350740 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3350740
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , Trebbi F
Inconsistent Regulators: Evidence from Banking
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , issue 2 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
Crossref
P R Agenor , R Zilberman
Loan loss provisioning rules, procyclicality, and financial volatility
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 61 , p. 301 - 315 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Ahmed , E Kilic , G Lobo
The effect of SFAS133 on the risk relevance of accounting measures on banks' derivative exposures. The Accounting Review86 , p. 769 - 804 Posted: 2011
Crossref
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and real authority in organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,905
RANK
344,140
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies