Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Independent Director in Corporate Governance-Reference to India

Journal of Corporate Board : Role, Duties & Composition Vol. 9, Issue 1, pp. 50-70 (2013)

Posted: 24 Apr 2019

Indrajit Dube

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur - Rajiv Gandhi School of Intellectual Property Law (RGSOIPL)

Aparup Pakhira

Damodaram Sanjivyya National Law University

Date Written: April 1, 2013

Abstract

A company is the common platform of various stakeholders, such as customers, employees, investors, shareholders etc.. It is an instrument that can attract huge capital for doing business. Every transaction in a company should be fair and transparent to its stakeholders. A company having good Corporate Governance and an effective Board of Directors attract investors and ensure investment. Independence of the Board is critical to ensure that the board fulfils its role objectively and holds the management accountable to the company. The practice across jurisdictions indicates that the presence of Independent Director is the answer to that. The present writes up delves into the current scenario in the Indian Corporate Sector and examines the role of Independent Director in Corporate Governance, in particular.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Board of Directors, Independent Director, India

Suggested Citation:

Dube, Indrajit and Pakhira, Aparup, Role of Independent Director in Corporate Governance-Reference to India (April 1, 2013). Journal of Corporate Board : Role, Duties & Composition Vol. 9, Issue 1, pp. 50-70 (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3351649
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
811
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies