Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEOs’ Experience of the Great Chinese Famine and Accounting Conservatism

Macquarie University Faculty of Business & Economics Research Paper

53 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2019 Last revised: 2 Apr 2019

Jun Hu

Hainan University

Wenbin Long

Guangdong University of Foreign Studies

Gary Gang Tian

Macquarie University - Department of Applied Finance and Actuarial Studies; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Daifei Yao

Queensland University of Technology - School of Accountancy

Date Written: November 1, 2018

Abstract

This paper examines the link between adverse early-life experiences of CEOs and accounting policy choice, in particular whether a CEO’s experience of the Great Chinese Famine impacts the accounting conservatism of his or her company. Our results show that companies whose CEOs had famine experience in early life adopt more conservative accounting policies. We also find that the positive association between a CEO’s famine experience and the company’s accounting conservatism is moderated by the structure of firm ownership and environmental uncertainty arising from turnover among core government officials and the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Additional tests identify two direct links between the famine experiences of CEOs and the accounting conservatism of the company. CEOs who experienced famine are more likely to conservatively recognise and disclose contingencies as well as asset impairments resulting from negative events, which is consistent with our main result. Overall, our results are robust for a battery of robustness tests, and they support the ‘risk-averse’ view that CEOs will apply the risk sensitivity learned from the Chinese famine experience to the company’s accounting policy decisions to meet the obligations of the contracting parties and other stakeholders.

Keywords: CEO Famine Experience, Accounting Conservatism, Risk-Taking, CEO Behaviour

JEL Classification: M12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Jun and Long, Wenbin and Tian, Gary Gang and Yao, Daifei, CEOs’ Experience of the Great Chinese Famine and Accounting Conservatism (November 1, 2018). Macquarie University Faculty of Business & Economics Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3351462 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3351462
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A S Ahmed , B Billings , R Morton , M Stanford
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 867 - 90 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Evidence on the role of accounting conservatism in monitoring managers' investment decisions
Accounting & Finance , volume 51 , p. 609 - 633 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Crossref
H An , Y Chen , D Luo , T Zhang
Political uncertainty and corporate investment: Evidence from China
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 36 , p. 174 - 189 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,657
RANK
362,694
7 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies