Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Gatekeepers in Capital Markets

42 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2019

Sugata Roychowdhury

Northwestern University Kellogg School of Management

Suraj Srinivasan

Harvard Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 13, 2019

Abstract

Gatekeepers in financial markets have the power to provide the institutional stability, fortitude and direction necessary for the development and the smooth functioning of capital markets. At the same time, they are often motivated by their own private incentives. This along with the trade-offs they face, and the at-times unintended consequences of the regulations they propose and enforce, can undermine their effectiveness. A thorough understanding of gatekeepers and their roles can thus illuminate academics, the financial community and regulators on how such gatekeepers can be the most effective and generate the greatest benefits for capital markets. Since gatekeeping roles and the literature they have inspired encompass a wide array of institutions and agencies, our overview concentrates on those that the conference papers appearing in this volume focus on. We conclude that collectively, the papers contribute to significant progress, and point out some crucial areas that call for further investigation and offer opportunities for future research.

Suggested Citation:

Roychowdhury, Sugata and Srinivasan, Suraj, The Role of Gatekeepers in Capital Markets (March 13, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3352046 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3352046
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
G Andrade , M Mitchell , E Stafford
New Evidence and Perspectives on Mergers Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
Crossref
B Akins
Financial Reporting Quality and Uncertainty about Credit Risk among Ratings Agencies
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2018
Crossref
W Alissa , S B Bonsall , K Koharki , M W Penn
Firms' use of accounting discretion to influence their credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , p. 129 - 147 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A Alp
Structural Shifts in Credit Rating Standards
The Journal of Finance , volume 68 , issue 6 , p. 2435 - 2470 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
757
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,712
RANK
76,484
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies