Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enforcing Disclosure Compliance in Mergers and Acquisitions: Evidence from China

forthcoming on European Accounting Review

75 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2019 Last revised: 11 Oct 2023

Junzi Zhang

University of Bristol - Department of Finance and Accounting

Pawel Bilinski

Bayes Business School, City University London

Ivana Raonic

City University London - The Business School

James Ryans

London Business School

Date Written: September 4, 2019

Abstract

This study examines how enforcement of acquisition disclosure regulation affects investors’ assessment of the transactions’ quality at merger and acquisition (M&A) announcements. Using a novel sample of comment letters on acquisition filings by public companies in China, we document that regulatory requests for disclosure enhancement and clarifications are more common on lower quality transactions obfuscated by weaker disclosure as evidenced by (i) a lower likelihood of the deal closing, and if the deal does close, lower post-deal firm profitability; and, (ii) a greater likelihood of subsequent goodwill impairment. Using entropy balancing matching, we document that transactions that receive comment letters associate with significant negative bidder announcement returns suggesting that regulatory actions reveal new information that aids investors to identify lower quality deals. The negative price effect is greater when comment letters have more acquisition-specific comments, compared to letters with more comments on general accounting and governance issues. Our results showcase that enforcing disclosure compliance in M&A filings aids investors in assessing the quality of M&A transactions at the time when the filings are made public.

Keywords: enforcement; comment letters; mergers and acquisitions; disclosure; regulation; transparency; political economy

JEL Classification: D78; D82; G14; G34; G38; K22; K42; M41; M48

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Junzi and Bilinski, Pawel and Raonic, Ivana and Ryans, James, Enforcing Disclosure Compliance in Mergers and Acquisitions: Evidence from China (September 4, 2019). forthcoming on European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3352597 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3352597
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
211 References
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of financial economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
J G Altonji , T E Elder , C R Taber
Selection on observed and unobserved variables: Assessing the effectiveness of Catholic schools
Journal of political economy , volume 113 , issue 1 , p. 151 - 184 Posted: 2005
B W Ambrose , W L Megginson
The Role of Asset Structure, Ownership Structure, and Takeover Defenses in Determining Acquisition Likelihood
Journal of Financial & Quantitative Analysis , volume 27 , issue 4 , p. 1919 - 1952 Posted: 1992
J Armour , J B Jacobs , C J Milhaupt
The evolution of hostile takeover regimes in developed and emerging markets: an analytical framework
Harv. Int'l LJ , volume 52 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,232
RANK
291,202
211 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies