Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did the 2005 Deferred Prosecution Agreement Adversely Impact KPMG’s Audit Practice?

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory (February 2019), 38(1): 77-102.

Posted: 1 Apr 2019

Matthew Baugh

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Jeff P. Boone

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Inder K. Khurana

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: March 13, 2019

Abstract

We examine the consequences of misconduct in a Big 4 firm’s nonaudit practice for its audit practice. Specifically, we examine whether KPMG’s audit practice suffered a loss of audit fees and clients and/or a decline in factual audit quality following the 2005 deferred prosecution agreement (DPA) with the Department of Justice for marketing questionable tax shelters. We find little evidence that the DPA adversely impacted KPMG’s audit practice by way of either audit fees or the likelihood of client gains/losses, suggesting little or no harm to KPMG’s audit reputation. We also find that the DPA had no effect on the firm’s factual audit quality, even for those audit clients that dropped KPMG as their tax service provider. Collectively, our findings suggest that there was no spillover effect from the DPA to KPMG’s audit practice.

Keywords: DOJ/KPMG deferred prosecution agreement; reputational loss; audit fees; client gains/losses; audit quality; Big 4 firms

JEL Classification: M4, M49

Suggested Citation:

Baugh, Matthew and Boone, Jeff P. and Khurana, Inder and Raman, K. K., Did the 2005 Deferred Prosecution Agreement Adversely Impact KPMG’s Audit Practice? (March 13, 2019). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory (February 2019), 38(1): 77-102., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3352020
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,091
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies