Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Politically Connected Subsidy Recipients Disclose Less Subsidy Information?



Journal of Business Finance and Accounting (forthcoming)

52 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2019 Last revised: 23 May 2024

Ningzhong Li

University of Texas at Dallas

Youchao Tan

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Cheng (Colin) Zeng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: May 23, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the association between firms’ political connections and their voluntary disclosure of information related to government subsidies, using a sample of Chinese non-state-owned enterprises. We find that politically connected subsidy recipients disclose less information about their subsidies (source and policy basis) in their annual reports than do unconnected firms. This association is mainly driven by connected firms whose subsidies are difficult to justify, is stronger for firms registered in more corrupt provinces and for firms with higher media attention. In addition, connected firms disclosing more subsidy information receive fewer future subsidies than do other connected firms. These findings suggest that politically connected subsidy recipients tend to withhold subsidy information to reduce the costs that accompany public scrutiny of subsidies granted through relationships.

Keywords: Government subsidies; Political connection; Corporate disclosure; Public scrutiny

JEL Classification: H2; M4; P16

Suggested Citation:

Li, Ningzhong and Tan, Youchao and Zeng, Cheng, Do Politically Connected Subsidy Recipients Disclose Less Subsidy Information?


(May 23, 2024). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3352094 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3352094
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
D Aobdia , A Koester , R Petacchi
Political connections and government subsidies: State-level evidence Posted: 2021
C Armstrong , J D Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality redux: The evolution of empirical methods in accounting research and the growth of quasi-experiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 74 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
440
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,787
RANK
151,074
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies