Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Preference, Institutional Trading, and Stock Return Patterns

Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA), Vol. 58, 2023

59 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2019 Last revised: 13 Apr 2025

Jie Cao

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Sheridan Titman

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Finance; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Xintong Zhan

Fudan University - School of Management; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER)

Weiming Elaine Zhang

IE Business School - IE University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 25, 2021

Abstract

Socially responsible (SR) institutions tend to focus more on the ESG performance and less on quantitative signals of value. Consistent with this difference in focus, we find that SR institutions react less to quantitative mispricing signals. Our evidence suggests that the increased focus on ESG may have influenced stock return patterns. Specifically, abnormal returns associated with these mispricing signals are greater for stocks held more by SR institutions. The link between SR ownership and the efficacy of mispricing signals only emerges in recent years with the rise of ESG investing, and is significant only when there are arbitrage-related funding constraints.

Keywords: ESG preference; institutional trading; stock mispricing; stock return patterns

JEL Classification: G23; G41; G14; M14

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Jie and Titman, Sheridan and Zhan, Xintong and Zhang, Weiming Elaine, ESG Preference, Institutional Trading, and Stock Return Patterns (August 25, 2021). Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA), Vol. 58, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3353623 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3353623
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,417
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,905
RANK
7,117
24 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies