Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm-Level Political Risk and Bank Loan Contracting

55 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2019 Last revised: 10 Apr 2024

Walid Saffar

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Yang Wang

The University of Sydney

K.C. John Wei

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: April 5, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the impact of firm-level political risk on loan contracting. We find that firm-level
political risk is positively associated with bank loan cost and that this effect is stronger for firms
experiencing increased operational uncertainty and higher default risks. Firm-level political risk
also leads to more unfavorable non-pricing loan terms. To alleviate endogeneity concerns, we use an instrumental variable approach and placebo tests. We further find that political connections and
relationship-based borrowing can attenuate the adverse effect of firm-level political risk on loan
contracting.

Keywords: firm-level political risk, bank loan cost, loan covenants, default risk, operational uncertainty

JEL Classification: G21; G32; P16; P26

Suggested Citation:

Saffar, Walid and Wang, Yang and Wei, Kuo-Chiang (John), Firm-Level Political Risk and Bank Loan Contracting (April 5, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3354246 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3354246
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
P Akey , S Lewellen
Policy uncertainty, political capital, and firm risk-taking Posted: 2017
Z S Alam , M A Chen , C S Ciccotello , H E Ryan
Does the location of directors matter? Information acquisition and board decisions
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 131 - 164 Posted: 2014
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 4 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
528
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,992
RANK
121,386
11 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies