Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association between Corporate Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure - Evidence from Gulf Cooperation Council Countries

19 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Abdelmohsen Desoky

UoB

Date Written: December 1, 2018

Abstract

This study investigates the possible association between Corporate Governance (CG) and
disclosure of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) by listed companies in the Gulf Cooperation
Council1
(GCC) countries. An un-weighted CSR disclosure index including 41 information items
has been developed to gather suitable information from corporate annual reports of 246 sampled
listed companies from the six GCC countries covering the 2016 financial period. Five
independent variables represent CG factors (board size, non-executive directors, role duality,
female directors and size of the audit committee) in addition to three company characteristics
(firm size, profitability and type of industry) are control variables in six regression models.
Findings of regression models reveal that only board size and non-executive directors are
determinants of CSR disclosure; conversely, no significant association is found between CSR
disclosure and the other three CG variables.


Keywords: Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure, Corporate Governance, The Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC).

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Desoky, Abdelmohsen, The Association between Corporate Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure - Evidence from Gulf Cooperation Council Countries (December 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3354398 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3354398
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
W Albassam
Corporate governance, voluntary disclosure and financial performance: an empirical analysis of Saudi listed firms using a mixed-methods research design Posted: 2014
M Alfraih , A Almutawa
Voluntary disclosure and corporate governance: Empirical evidence from Kuwait
International Journal of Law and Management , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 217 - 236 Posted: 2017
Y Al-Janadi , R Rahman , N Omar
Corporate governance mechanisms and voluntary disclosure in Saudi Arabia
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 25 - 36 Posted: 2013
K Aljifri , M Moustafa
The impact of corporate governance mechanisms on the performance of UAE Firms: an empirical analysis
Journal of Economics & Administrative Science , volume 23 , issue 2 Posted: 2007
Load more
4 Citations
Ilyes CHARCHAFA , Bilal KIMOUCHE
FACTORS SHAPING CORPORATE SOCIAL DISCLOSURE PRACTICES: EVIDENCE FROM THE SAUDI ARABIAN CONTEXT
Modern Management Review , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 39 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Chau Thi Le Duyen , Phan Van Dan , Luu Hong Ngoc
The Impact of Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure on The Level Of Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure of Listed Manufacturing Companies on The Ho Chi Minh Stock Exchange – Vietnam
Journal of Law and Sustainable Development , volume 11 , issue 12 , p. e2189 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Najeb Masoud
Explore Business, Technology Opportunities and Challenges ‎After the Covid-19 Pandemic
, volume 495 , p. 570 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Abdelmohsen Desoky
The impact of audit committee features on environmental and community disclosure – empirical evidence from GCC countries
Investment Management and Financial Innovations , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 82 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
425
RANK
741,762
4 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies