Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Missing the Role of Property in the Regulation of Insider Trading

69 Cath. U. L. Rev. 209 (2020)

40 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2019 Last revised: 22 Oct 2020

Kevin Douglas

Michigan State University - College of Law

Date Written: October 19, 2020

Abstract

For decades, legal scholars have evaluated the law and practice of insider trading through a property lens. Some have debated whether a property rationale is useful for explaining past cases or might make a useful framework for deciding tough cases in the future. Others have explored which market actors should be allocated property rights in inside information in order to increase the efficiency or liquidity of U.S. securities markets. Yet scholars seem to have missed the fact that officials have consistently relied on the violation of some party’s property rights to justify imposing liability for insider trading—including in classical theory of liability cases.

Missing the role that property principles continually play in the doctrine has undermined the quality of the policy and doctrinal debate surrounding insider trading. Because there are costs associated with changing the current state of affairs, a discussion of how to allocate rights in inside information is incomplete without recognizing which parties currently hold title to the information. In addition, while many scholars are correct to reject a property rationale as useful for explaining the majority of past insider trading cases, it would be a mistake to dismiss the explanatory power of property principles entirely. If officials consistently rely on the violation of property rights in inside information to justify imposing liability, then property and related doctrines may help scholars and policy makers to understand what changes would be required to bring the regulation of insider trading into greater harmony with its doctrinal and statutory roots.

With these opportunities in mind, this article identifies several ways that property principles motivate the U.S. insider trading regime. It concludes by highlighting some considerations that scholars and policy makers should take into account in future analysis.

Keywords: insider trading, property, securities regulation, equal access, exclusive use

Suggested Citation:

Douglas, Kevin, Missing the Role of Property in the Regulation of Insider Trading (October 19, 2020). 69 Cath. U. L. Rev. 209 (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3354736 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3354736
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
U See Also , Sec , Biography , Robert J Commissioner , Jackson Jr
The purpose of the original statute was to prevent individuals from being held responsible for promises that were never made and were only evidenced by perjured testimonies. See Hugh Evander Willis, The Statute of Frauds-A Legal Anachronism, 3 IND. L.J. 427, 428n.5 (1928) (citing the preamble of the original statute as describing its purpose). For a reproduction of the original statute , volume 283 , p. 285 - 287 Posted: 1913
Catholic University Law Review , volume 69
Crossref
Restatement See
Property interests are, in general, alienable Posted: 1944
For the powers of corporations, see DEL. CODE. ANN. Tit. 8 § 122
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,720
RANK
692,403
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies