Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accrual and Real Earnings Management and the Reputation of Nominated Advisors Around IPOs: The Experience of the UK Alternative Investment Market

Posted: 15 Apr 2019 Last revised: 29 Apr 2019

Mohammad Alhadab

Al al-Bayt University

Date Written: March 19, 2019

Abstract

This paper investigates whether the reputation of the Nominated Advisor (Nomad) impacts accrual and real earnings management of Initial Public Offering (IPO) firms on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) of the London Stock Exchange in the UK. While role of Nomads on AIM market is a significant determinant to ensure to the integrity of the financial reporting quality of their advisee firms, to date, there has been no analysis of the impact of Nomads on such reporting activities. This paper finds evidence that more reputable Nomads on the AIM market play a significant role to constrain the use of accrual-based and real-based earnings management during the IPO year by their advisee IPO firms. This evidence is robust, controlling for endogeneity and selection issue. In addition, the results show that IPO firms with more reputable Nomads experience a better long-run stock return performance and a lower failure rate in the following periods.

Keywords: Nominated Advisors, Earnings management, Initial Public Offerings, Long-run performance, IPO failure, Alternative Investment Market (AIM)

JEL Classification: G1, G2, G11, G14, G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Alhadab, Mohammad, Accrual and Real Earnings Management and the Reputation of Nominated Advisors Around IPOs: The Experience of the UK Alternative Investment Market (March 19, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3355941 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3355941
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,037
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies