Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insider trading and disclosure: The case of cyberattacks

37 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2019

Eli Amir

Tel Aviv University

Shai Levi

Tel Aviv University

Tsafrir Livne

Tel Aviv University - Coller School of Management

Date Written: March 07, 2024

Abstract

We examine the relation between insider trading and corporate disclosure of cyberattacks. We distinguish between companies that voluntarily disclosed cyberattacks and those that withheld information on the incidents, and parties outside the attacked company later discovered the incident. We find insiders sell stocks in cases their firm withholds information on the cyberattack from investors. However, in firms that voluntarily disclosed information about the attack, we find insiders are less likely to sell shares when information is still private. We also find that managers are less likely to withhold and sell stocks in states that require companies to disclose data breaches to the state attorney general. The requirement to disclose a breach to the state attorney marks the breach as a significant event, on which insiders are less likely to trade before disclosure because of higher litigation risk. When disclosure requirements are less strict and disclosure is virtually voluntary, insiders trade after withholding information on the cyberattack. The results demonstrate the relation between disclosure and insider trading, and in particular show managers are more (less) likely to trade on private information that they know the company will withhold (disclose).

Keywords: insider trading, disclosure, cyberattacks, data breaches

Suggested Citation:

Amir, Eli and Levi, Shai and Livne, Tsafrir, Insider trading and disclosure: The case of cyberattacks (March 07, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3355978 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3355978
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D and insider gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
E Amir , S Levi , T Livne
Do firms underreport information on cyberattacks? Evidence from capital markets
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 1177 - 1206 Posted: 2018
B A Badertscher , S P Hribar , N T Jenkins
Informed trading and the market reaction to accounting restatements
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 5 , p. 1519 - 1547 Posted: 2011
H Berkman , J Jona , G Lee , N S Soderstrom
Cybersecurity awareness and market valuations
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy (Forthcoming) Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,390
RANK
210,151
3 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies