Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Sustainability Indexes: Dow-Jones Index

Journal of Accounting, Finance and Auditing Studies 4/4 (2018) 1-10

10 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2019

Drita Krasniqi

University of Prizren

Dr.Sc. Luan Vardari

University of Prizren

Date Written: September 1, 2018

Abstract

Corporate Sustainability Performance Measurement along with Corporate Environmental Sustainability aims to address the social and economic aspects. Concerns emerging from the three dimensions are being reduced to a single dimension of them. Multi-criteria decision-making methods, suggests a useful framework for assessing the variables together. Corporate sustainability and economic business activities are focused on the social and environmental impacts. In this sense, the economic activity established by the businesses do follow social and environmental impacts, therefore the generation of related information of these effects is being considered essential on the structure formation on a sustainable business. In this study, it has been used Dow Jones Sustainability Index monthly data from 2009 to 2015 in a range of 12 months to help investors to make decisions. The comparison of ARIMA and Exponential Smoothing models has been conducted, wherein the results showed that ARIMA model provided better estimates meantime those who invested in a stock portfolio with the same composition as the DJSI proved to ensure positive earnings. The purpose of the essay is to give a conclusion to the future of the practice.

Keywords: Corporate sustainability, Dow Jones, Time Series, Financial Markets

JEL Classification: Q56, C22, C43, D53

Suggested Citation:

Krasniqi, Drita and Vardari, Luan, Corporate Sustainability Indexes: Dow-Jones Index (September 1, 2018). Journal of Accounting, Finance and Auditing Studies 4/4 (2018) 1-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3357855 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3357855
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,363
RANK
467,197
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies