Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Buyback Announcements of Small Market Capitalized Firms and the Shareholders’ Value Creation

International Journal of Advanced Scientific Research and Management, Volume 3 Issue 5, May 2018

6 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2019

Hiral Vyas

Conestoga College

Patel R. K.

Hemchandracharya North Gujarat University

Date Written: May 25, 2018

Abstract

Share repurchase commonly known as buyback in India, represents reverse process than issue of shares. Share buyback are carried out with different motives. A buyback generally refers to a corporate restructuring tool where, company through different options offer existing shareholders usually better price than price prevailing in the market. Reactions of such announcements towards market equilibrium idea and share holders’ value creation through abnormal return over market is studied with the help of event study methodology – market adjusted model. This study examines the announcements of buyback of shares by small capitalized companies during year 2010-2016. An analysis of security price performance over benchmark index surrounding 21 days i.e. 10 days pre and post days of the announcements suggest negligible return on the day of announcements and negative average abnormal return in said range.


Keywords: Buyback, Event study, Shareholders value

Suggested Citation:

Vyas, Hiral and R. K., Patel, Buyback Announcements of Small Market Capitalized Firms and the Shareholders’ Value Creation (May 25, 2018). International Journal of Advanced Scientific Research and Management, Volume 3 Issue 5, May 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3358090
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
839
RANK
627,127
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies