Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intermediary power in corporate elections and the value of shareholder proposals: a quasi-natural experiment

60 Pages Posted: 6 May 2019 Last revised: 9 Nov 2023

Ali C. Akyol

University of Ottawa

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 8, 2023

Abstract

I examine the impact of a vote tabulation firm’s decision to withhold interim vote tally data from proposal sponsors on shareholder proposals in corporate elections. The results show a positive market response to the decision, particularly among firms that used the vote tabulation firm for vote tallying. The results also reveal a decline in support for shareholder proposals. These findings suggest that the decision weakened shareholders’ ability to secure a majority vote for their proposals and reduced the likelihood of proposal implementation. The results also emphasize the importance of understanding the role of intermediaries in corporate affairs and their implications for shareholder value and provide initial evidence that vote-counting procedures—that should have no impact on the outcome—indeed could influence the functioning of shareholder rights.

Keywords: shareholder proposals; shareholder rights; governance; shareholder voting; vote tabulation firms

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Akyol, Ali C., Intermediary power in corporate elections and the value of shareholder proposals: a quasi-natural experiment (November 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3359576 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3359576
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Reena Aggarwal , Sandeep Dahiya , Nagpurnanand Prabhala
The power of shareholder votes: Evidence from director elections
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , p. 134 - 153 Posted: 2019
Ali C Akyol , Fen Wei , Patrick Lim , Verwijmeren
Shareholders in the boardroom: wealth effects of the SEC's proposal to facilitate director nominations
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 47 , p. 1029 - 1057 Posted: 2012
Christopher S Armstrong , D Ian , David F Gow , Larcker
The efficacy of shareholder voting: Evidence from equity compensation plans
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , p. 909 - 950 Posted: 2013
Laurent Bach , Daniel Metzger
How close are shareholder votes?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , p. 3183 - 3214 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,915
RANK
377,290
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies