Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reporting by the Companies: Development and Challenges

11 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2019

Indrajit Dube

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur - Rajiv Gandhi School of Intellectual Property Law (RGSOIPL)

Mia Rahim

School of Law, University of New England

Date Written: March 25, 2019

Abstract

Although there have been significant efforts towards the creation of an overarching global style for company reporting, currently there is no accepted style. Most of the countries do not have laws related to companies’ general reporting. As such, company directors tend to follow their own formats for preparing non-financial reports and disseminate only the information necessary to promote companies’ images. This trend undermines the capacity of reporting as a mechanism to promote accountability practice of the companies. By providing an assessment of the development and challenges of company reporting, this chapter suggests that companies must provide clear information regarding the economic benefit they created and the social cost attached to the creation of the economic benefits in their non-financial reports.

Suggested Citation:

Dube, Indrajit and Rahim, Mia, Reporting by the Companies: Development and Challenges (March 25, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3359519 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3359519
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
I O D I S Africa
The Evolution of Company reporting for Integrated Performance
Baron, R Posted: 2009
W Bartels , T Fogelberg , A Hoballah , Van Der , C T Lugt
Carrots and SticksGlobal trends in sustainability reporting regulation and policy: Rep. KMPG International, GRI, United Nations Environment Programme, and The Centre for Corporate Governance in Africa Posted: 2016
M L Bhasin , M Reddy
Corporate governance disclosure practices: the portrait of a developing country
International Review of Business Research Papers , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 393 - 419 Posted: 2011
C A Botosan
Disclosure and the cost of capital: what do we know? Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 31 - 40 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
919
RANK
475,518
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies