Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ExxonMobil: Constructing a Mock Long-Term Plan

39 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2019

Michael P. Krzus

Independent

Brian Tomlinson

Date Written: March 23, 2019

Abstract

A diverse group of institutional investors and corporations are driving a movement to encourage corporate CEOs to present their organization’s long-term plan to institutional investors. Long-term plans may be perceived as additive to existing disclosures. Given that companies must comply with mandated disclosures and many provide a wide range of voluntary information, we decided to conduct an experiment. We posed the following question; “Is it possible and, if so, how difficult would it be to construct a mock long-term plan for a company based on information the company has placed in the public domain?” For our experiment, we selected ExxonMobil as the target of our experiment because of what had been learned about the extent of the company’s regulatory and voluntary disclosures during previous research projects. We were able to construct a decent a mock long-term plan that addressed, in varying degrees of completeness and quality, most of the recommended elements of a long-term plan.

Keywords: Capital Allocation, CECP Strategic Investor Initiative, Competitive Advantage, Corporate Governance, ESG, ExxonMobil, FCLTGlobal, Long-Term Plan, Risks and Opportunities, Strategy, Sustainability

Suggested Citation:

Krzus, Michael P. and Tomlinson, Brian, ExxonMobil: Constructing a Mock Long-Term Plan (March 23, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3359658 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3359658
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Dominic Barton
Capitalism for The Long Term
Harvard Business Review Posted: 2011-03
Crossref
Dominic Barton
The City and Capitalism for the Long Term Posted: 2013-05-15
Crossref
Dominic Barton , Mark Wiseman
Focusing Capital on the Long Term
Harvard Business Review Posted: 2013-12-20
Dominic Barton , Jonathan Bailey , Joshua Zoffer
Rising to the challenge of short-termism, FCLTGlobal Posted: 2016-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
390
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,047
RANK
173,507
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies