Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management’s Chinese Zodiac and Ownership to Firm Performance

Advances in Social Science, Education and Humanities Research (ASSEHR), volume 186 15th International Symposium on Management (INSYMA 2018)

4 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2019

Rico Tedyono

Master of Management

Putu Anom Mahadwartha

Faculty of Business and Economics, Universitas Surabaya

Date Written: March 5, 2018

Abstract

The research examines the effect of Chinese Astrology (shio) and managerial ownership on firm’s performance. The research also examines other issue of agency problem which is called managerial ownership. The separation between the principal with ownership function and agent with control function leads to a potential conflict called agency conflict. Sample is manufacturing firms listed in Indonesia Stock Exchange for the period of 2013-2015. The results of this study indicate that Chinese Zodiac of the CEOs have no effect on the company's performance, while managerial ownership positively affects the company's performance. Financial ratios used to measure company's performance are profitability ratios, such as Return on Assets (ROA) as the main parameter and Return on Equity (ROE) as supporting parameter or robustness with no significant effect which aims to confirm the effect of managerial ownership on the company's performance.

Keywords: Chinese Astrology, Managerial Ownership, Firm’s Performance

JEL Classification: G32, G39, G41

Suggested Citation:

Tedyono, Rico and Mahadwartha, Putu Anom, Management’s Chinese Zodiac and Ownership to Firm Performance (March 5, 2018). Advances in Social Science, Education and Humanities Research (ASSEHR), volume 186 15th International Symposium on Management (INSYMA 2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3360824
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
S Alves
Ownership structure and earnings management: evidence from Portugal
Australasian Accounting Business and Finance , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 74 Posted: 2012
N A Amran , C A Ayoib
The effect of ownership structure on Malaysia companies performance
Asian Journal of Accounting and Governance , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 60 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Cho
Ownership structure, investment, and the corporate value: an empirical analysis
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 121 Posted: 1998
Crossref
D S Chung , G K Byoung , W K Dong , C Sungchul
Corporate governcance and firm performance: the Korea evidence
Journal of International Business and Economics , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 46 - 54 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,220
RANK
448,944
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies