Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship Between Managerial Ownership and Earnings Management - Evidence from Mongolian Listed Firms

11 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2019

Narantsetseg Amarsanaa

Mandakh University

Date Written: March 26, 2019

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to examine the relationship between managerial ownership and earnings management of listed Mongolian firms in 2009-2015. Most of the Mongolian enterprises were state-owned and state-controlled until the transition to free market economy. The stock exchange was established by privatizing those state-owned companies and was created managerial owners. Proxy of earnings management is defined by discretionary accruals. The managerial ownership is measured as the percentage of shareholder's shares directly or indirectly held by manager. A total of 122 Mongolian listed firms are chosen as a study sample and found that managerial ownership is negatively and significantly related to earnings management. This result is almost similar with previous literatures.

Keywords: managerial ownership, earnings management, Mongolia

Suggested Citation:

Amarsanaa, Narantsetseg, The Relationship Between Managerial Ownership and Earnings Management - Evidence from Mongolian Listed Firms (March 26, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3360342 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3360342
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
M R Banderlipe
The Impact of Selected Corporate Governance Variables in Mitigating Earnings Management in the Philippines
DLSU Business & Economics Review , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 27 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Joseph V. Carcello , Carl W. Hollingsworth , April Klein , Terry L. Neal
Audit Committee Financial Expertise, Competing Corporate Governance Mechanisms, and Earnings Management
Pages: 55 Posted: 5 Mar 2006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Claessens , S Djankov , L H P Lang
The Separation of Ownership and Control in East Asian Corporations
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 58 , p. 81 - 112 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M M Cornett , J J Mcnutt , H Tehranian
Corporate Governance and Earnings Management at Large U.S. Banks Holding Companies
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 15 , p. 412 - 430 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
465
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,998
RANK
141,557
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies