Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stakeholder Identification and Salience After 20 Years: Progress, Problems, and Prospects

Wood, D.J., Mitchell, R.K., Agle, B.R., Bryan, L.M. (2018) Stakeholder Identification and Salience After 20 Years: Progress, Problems, and Prospects. Business & Society, in press.

69 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2019 Last revised: 29 Apr 2020

Donna J. Wood

University of Northern Iowa

Ronald K. Mitchell

Texas Tech University - Rawls College of Business

Bradley R Agle

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Logan Bryan

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania

Date Written: December 22, 2018

Abstract

To contribute to the continuing challenge of explaining how managers identify stakeholders and assess their salience, in this article, we chronicle the history, assess the impact, and evaluate the possibilities opened by Mitchell, Agle, and Wood (MAW-1997). We do so through two types of qualitative analysis, and also through utilizing a quantitative network analysis tool. The first qualitative analysis categorizes the major contributions of the most influential papers succeeding MAW-1997; the second identifies and compares the relevant issues with MAW-1997 at the time of initial publication and today. We apply main path analysis, a quantitative tool, to map how this scholarly domain has evolved. These three analyses robustly depict the impact of MAW-1997 and the ensuing scholarly conversation, and they enable us to illustrate the current state and trajectory of stakeholder identification and salience scholarship. We close by discussing pressing topics related to the broader body of stakeholder theory literature.

Keywords: stakeholder identification, stakeholder salience, stakeholder theory

Suggested Citation:

Wood, Donna J. and Mitchell, Ronald K. and Agle, Bradley R and Bryan, Logan, Stakeholder Identification and Salience After 20 Years: Progress, Problems, and Prospects (December 22, 2018). Wood, D.J., Mitchell, R.K., Agle, B.R., Bryan, L.M. (2018) Stakeholder Identification and Salience After 20 Years: Progress, Problems, and Prospects. Business & Society, in press., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3360193
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
184 References
K Aaltonen , K Jaakko , O Tuomas
Stakeholder salience in global projects
International Journal of Project Management , volume 26 , issue 5 , p. 509 - 516 Posted: 2008
Crossref
B R Agle , T Donaldson , R E Freeman , M C Jensen , R K Mitchell , D J Wood
Dialogue: Toward superior stakeholder theory
Business Ethics Quarterly , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 153 - 190 Posted: 2008
Crossref
B R Agle , R K Mitchell , J A Sonnenfeld
Who matters to CEOs? An investigation of stakeholder attributes and salience, corporate performance, and CEO values
Academy of Management Journal , volume 42 , issue 5 , p. 507 - 525 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J Andriof , S Waddock
Unfolding stakeholder thinking: Theory, responsibility and engagement Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
883
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,194
RANK
63,140
2 Citations
184 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies