Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is future shareholder activism associated with current financial reporting quality? Evidence from the US

51 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2019 Last revised: 9 Jul 2020

Tom Adams

La Salle University

Thaddeus Neururer

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 2, 2020

Abstract

We examine whether future shareholder activism is associated with current financial reporting quality. Activism refers to actions taken by shareholders to change firm policies and practices. If issues are present in an investee’s financial reports, we expect shareholders to act to improve information quality and governance. Following prior literature, we adopt governance proposals as our measure of activism and a portfolio of measures as our proxies for financial reporting quality. Depending on specification, we find governance proposals are positively associated with abnormal audit fees, abnormal accruals, the use of a non-Big N auditor, internal control issues, and restatements.

Keywords: Shareholder Activism, Shareholder Proposals, Financial Reporting Quality

JEL Classification: G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Adams, Thomas and Neururer, Thaddeus, Is future shareholder activism associated with current financial reporting quality? Evidence from the US (July 2, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3361802 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3361802
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
242
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,130
RANK
288,800
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies