Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Electoral Donations and Tax Aggressiveness

24 Pages Posted: 2 May 2019

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Hettore Sias Telles

CONTABILIDADE SIAS; FAACZ - Faculdades Integradas de Aracruz

Date Written: March 28, 2019

Abstract

Objective: To investigate whether companies that donate to winning electoral campaigns are more aggressive in terms of tax planning than companies that do not make these contributions. The relationship between politicians and companies may be signaled by political connections in which companies try to get political benefits in exchange for providing politicians with campaign financing. Our hypothesis is that a quid pro quo occurs in which these companies benefit from favorable tax treatment that reduces their relative tax burden.

Methodology: The focus of this study is donations which were made in the presidential elections of 2010 and 2014. The sample covers the period between 2010 and 2016 for companies listed on the B3, using proxies for tax aggressiveness computed based on Value Added Reporting. Through linear regressions we have tested whether the companies that made these campaign contributions tend to have a lower tax burden.

Results: The proposed hypothesis was confirmed, revealing that a political connection between campaign donations reduces the tax burden for donating companies during the years following the election. These donations appear to depict an environment characterized by an exchange of favors, in which these donating companies exhibit greater tax aggressiveness as compared to non-donating companies.

Originality/Value: The current study deals with a subject that has not yet been examined empirically in Brazil, and reinforces the position adopted by the Supreme Court in prohibiting campaign donations to inhibit quid pro quo practices. The study offers additional arguments for the criminalization of the so-called “second set of books” used to record electoral campaign contributions.

Keywords: tax aggressiveness, political connections, donations, campaign financing

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo and Sias Telles, Hettore, Corporate Electoral Donations and Tax Aggressiveness (March 28, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3361766 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3361766
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
M D Amore , M Bennedsen
The Value of local political connections in a lowcorruption environment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 110 , p. 387 - 402 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Crossref
K R V Bazuchi , S A S Zacharias , L W Broering , M L Arreola , Bandeira De Mello
R. The role of home country political resources for Brazilian multinational companies , volume 16 , p. 784 - 805 Posted: 2013
Crossref
E U Cervi
Financiamento de campanhas e desempenho eleitoral no Brasil: análise das contribuições de pessoas físicas, jurídicas e partidos políticos às eleições de 2008 nas capitais de Estado
Revista Brasileira de Ciência Política , volume 1 , p. 135 - 167 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,190
RANK
692,403
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies