Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Convergence of Corporate Governance: Concepts and Reality

31 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2019

Syed A. Mamun, PhD, FCMA

Universiti Utara Malaysia - School of Accountancy; Credit Rating Information and Services Limited

Date Written: March 28, 2011

Abstract

This paper sheds light on some critical questions about international convergence of corporate governance: what are the different governance models prevailing in the different countries around the world and why? Is there any “best” corporate governance mode? If so, how the countries with different models are moving towards developing the optimum model and is there any convergence? What are the major factors enhances the convergence in corporate governance? This study finds that convergence in corporate governance is taking place due to the reasons related to the globalization of financial and product markets, an increasing harmonization and propinquity of legal and institutional norms and a more open circulation of and attitude towards foreign ideas.

Keywords: Convergence of Corporate Governance, Corporate Governance Models, English Legal Origin system

Suggested Citation:

Mamun, PhD, FCMA, Syed Abdulla Al and Mamun, PhD, FCMA, Syed Abdulla Al, International Convergence of Corporate Governance: Concepts and Reality (March 28, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3361474 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3361474
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
F Ahmed
Corporate Governance -Bangladesh Perspective
ICMAB Conference 2006 on , p. 24 - 27 Posted: 2006
R V Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of good governance worldwide: What is the trigger? Organization Studies , volume 25 , p. 415 - 443 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, Information Costs, and Economic Organizations
American Economic Review , volume 62 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
Crossref
M Aoki
Towards a Comparative Institutional Analysis Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,395
RANK
475,518
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies