Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Conservatism and the Profitability of Corporate Insiders

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2019 Last revised: 16 Jan 2020

Akram Khalilov

BI Norwegian Business School

Beatriz Garcia Osma

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid ; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: October 20, 2019

Abstract

We predict that accounting conservatism influences insiders' opportunities to speculate on good and bad news, and thus, insider trading profitability. We find that greater conditional (unconditional) conservatism is associated with lower (higher) insiders' profitability from sales. We find limited evidence that conservatism influences profitability from purchases. These findings are consistent with our hypotheses on the different informational roles of conditional and unconditional conservatism, and on the asymmetric influence of conservatism over the opportunities to speculate on good versus bad news. Our research design takes into consideration the endogenous nature of insiders' trading and conservatism. The results are robust to different measures of conservatism and a number of additional analyses.

Keywords: conditional conservatism, unconditional conservatism, insider trading sales and purchases, profitability from insider trading

JEL Classification: G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Khalilov, Akram and Garcia Osma, Beatriz, Accounting Conservatism and the Profitability of Corporate Insiders (October 20, 2019). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3362468 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3362468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R& D, and insider gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A S Ahmed , B Billings , R Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Evidence on the role of accounting conservatism in monitoring managers' investment decisions
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue 2 , p. 609 - 633 Posted: 2007
Crossref
L Ausubel
Insider trading in a rational expectations economy
The American Economic Review , volume 80 , issue 5 , p. 1022 - 1041 Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
413
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,413
RANK
162,515
11 Citations
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies