Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Corruption and Accounting Choices

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, forthcoming

71 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2019 Last revised: 18 Aug 2022

Huai Zhang

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Jin Zhang

Monash University

Date Written: March 30, 2019

Abstract

We examine how political corruption affects firms’ accounting choices. We hypothesize and find that firms headquartered in corrupt districts manipulate earnings downwards, relative to firms headquartered elsewhere. Our finding is robust to alternative corruption measures, alternative discretionary accrual measures, alternative model specifications, the instrumental variable approach, and difference-in-differences analyses based on firm relocation and high profile cases. We find that firms headquartered in corrupt districts prefer income-decreasing accounting choices and exhibit higher conservatism. Finally, we find that the effect of corruption on earnings management is more pronounced for geographically concentrated firms, for firms without political connections, for firms in politically sensitive industries, for firms with lower transient institutional investor ownership, and for firms with less analyst coverage. In sum, our findings suggest that firms respond to corruption by lowering their accounting earnings.

Keywords: Accounting Choices, Political Corruption, Rent Seeking

JEL Classification: M41, G38

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Huai and Zhang, Jin, Political Corruption and Accounting Choices (March 30, 2019). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3362732 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3362732
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
E J Allen , C R Larson , R G Sloan
Accrual reversals, earnings and stock returns
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 113 - 129 Posted: 2013
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management , volume 59 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
C S Armstrong , D F Larcker , G Ormazabal , D J Taylor
The relation between equity incentives and misreporting: The role of risk-taking incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 327 - 350 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
362
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,934
RANK
188,511
2 Citations
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies