Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Value, Firm Size and Income Smoothing

J. Fin. Bank. Review 4 (1) 01–07 (2019)

7 Pages Posted: 1 May 2019

Yulius Kurnia Susanto

Trisakti School of Management

Arya Pradipta

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 16, 2019

Abstract

Objective - Income smoothing is a form of earnings manipulation to show that the company's performance is good. Income smoothing can be detrimental to investors, because investors do not know the real financial position and fluctuations of the company. Management of the company engage in income smoothing because investors tend to focus only on the amount of profit reported without regard to the process of generating profits. The purpose of this research is to obtain empirical evidence about the effect of firm value and size on income smoothing.

Methodology/Technique - The sample of the research includes manufacturing companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange from 2014-2016. The samples were determined using a purposive sampling method and there are 51 companies that meet the criteria used. This research uses a logistic regression method for data analysis.

Findings - The results of the research show that the effect of firm value on income smoothing is positive and significant. Meanwhile, the effect of firm size on income smoothing is negative and significant. Companies that create value in the eyes of investors will try to retain their investors by engaging in income smoothing. Income smoothing will convince investors to invest in the company. Meanwhile, large companies that are convinced that investors will continue to invest do not typically engage in income smoothing.

Novelty - This study proves that, in the context of agency theory, the principal's desires are not often aligned with the wishes of management which can give rise to agency costs, one of which occurs as a result of income smoothing. Further, firm size can minimize opportunist income smoothing actions.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Income Smoothing; Firm Value; Firm Size; Agency Theory

JEL Classification: G32; M41; M49

Suggested Citation:

Susanto, Yulius Kurnia and Pradipta, Arya, Firm Value, Firm Size and Income Smoothing (March 16, 2019). J. Fin. Bank. Review 4 (1) 01–07 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3362330
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Yudho Aji , Dhamar , Aria Mita , Farah
The Effect of Profitability, Financial Risk, Corporate Value and Ownership Structure on Profit Smoothing Practices: An Empirical Study of Manufacturing Companies Listed on the IDX
Simposium Nasional Akuntansi XIII Purwokerto Posted: 2010
Benny Alexandri , Moh
Income Smoothing: Impact Factors, Evidence in Indonesia
International Journal of Small Business and Entrepreneurship Research , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 27 Posted: 2014
Vivien Beattie , Stephen Brown , David Ewers , Brian John , Stuart Manson , Dylan Thomas , Michael Turner
Posted: 1994
Crossref
Extraordinary Items and Income Smoothing: A Positive Accounting Approach
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 21 , issue 6 , p. 791 - 811
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
915
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,642
RANK
59,197
1 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies