Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Military Experience and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from China

54 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2019

Feng Cao

Hunan University - Business School

Jian Sun

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy

Rongli Yuan

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Date Written: February 2019

Abstract

We test whether military experience of CEOs or chairmen affects stock price crash risk. We find robust evidence that CEOs’ or chairmen’s military experience reduces crash risk. Our finding holds for various robustness checks including controlling for some additional characteristics of chairmen or CEOs and controlling for management individuals fixed effects, instrumental variable estimations, and difference-in-differences analysis based on a propensity-score-matched sample. Further analyses indicate that (1) military experience gained from the armed forces and regions with high political risk is more effective in decreasing stock price crash risk; (2) the negative relationship between military experience and crash risk is more significant in regions with lower sense of obedience and sense of social responsibility and for firms with less external monitoring. Finally, we find that obedience and social responsibility are the two channels through which military experience affects crash risk.

Keywords: military experience; stock price crash risk; obedience; corporate social responsibility; regulatory sanction

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Feng and Sun, Jian and Yuan, Rongli, Military Experience and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from China (February 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3363694 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3363694
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
L S Bamber , J X Jiang , I Y Wang
What's my style? The influence of top managers on voluntary corporate financial disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 Posted: 2010
Crossref
U Malmendier , G Tate , Yan , J
Overconfidence and early-life experiences: The effect of managerial traits on corporate financial policies
Journal of Finance , volume 66 , issue 5 , p. 1685 - 1731 Posted: 2011
Crossref
B W Roberts , A Caspi , T E Moffitt
Work experiences and personality development in young adulthood
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 582 - 593 Posted: 2003
Crossref
T Rosenbloom
Traffic light compliance by civilians, soldiers and military officers
Accident Analysis and Prevention , volume 43 , p. 2010 - 2014 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Ahsan Habib , Hedy Jiaying Huang
Abnormally Long Audit Report Lag and Future Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from China
38 Pages · Posted: 31 Oct 2017 · Downloads: 249
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Khalil Jebran , Shihua Chen , David Zhu
Board Informal Hierarchy and Stock Price Crash Risk: Theory and Evidence from China
Corporate Governance: An International Review, Vol. 27, Issue 5, pp. 341-357, 2019 · 17 Pages · Posted: 19 May 2020 · Downloads: 10
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,316
RANK
249,893
2 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies