Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The (In)Visibility of Undisclosed Political Connections

62 Pages Posted: 9 May 2019 Last revised: 4 Oct 2023

Han Wu

HEC Paris

Yi Li

Hunan University

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Qiliang Liu

Wuhan University - School of Economics and Management

Hong Cai

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 1, 2023

Abstract

Despite a strong investor demand for firms to disclose information on political connections, mandatory disclosure requirements face considerable opposition. Motivated by the literature on firms’ learning from stock prices, we investigate whether private information acquisition can be a useful alternative to disclosure. Using a setting of corruption investigations, we find that investors, on average, are not aware that the firms they have invested in have ties to the officials under investigation, suggesting a lack of visibility of the connections. Only a small number of institutional investors acquire information on the connections and sell their shares in response to the investigations. We also show that the high costs of information acquisition and a lack of incentives for analysts to disseminate sensitive information they have obtained contribute to this lack of visibility and result in a significant delay in the price incorporation of material information. Our study contributes to the debate on mandating disclosure of political connections by emphasizing the importance of investors’ ability to privately acquire relevant information on political connections.

Keywords: Political Connections, Visibility, Corruption, China, Anti-Corruption Campaign, Information, Transparency, Institutional Investors, Retail Investors

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34, G38, K40, M10, M41, M48, P37

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Han and Li, Yi and Hope, Ole-Kristian and Liu, Qiliang and Cai, Hong, The (In)Visibility of Undisclosed Political Connections (September 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3363698 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3363698
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
D Acemoglu , T A Hassan , A Tahoun
The power of the street: Evidence from Egypt's Arab spring
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 42 Posted: 2017
M D Amore , A Minichilli
Local political uncertainty, family control, and investment behavior
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 53 , issue 4 , p. 1781 - 1804 Posted: 2018
D Aparicio , C F Avenancio-León
Is banning corporate contributions enough? The dynamics of incomplete campaign finance reform
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 65 , issue 3 , p. 581 - 606 Posted: 2022
V P Baloria , K J Klassen , C I Wiedman
Shareholder activism and voluntary disclosure initiation: The case of political spending
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 904 - 933 Posted: 2019
Load more
1 Citations
Ole‐Kristian Hope , Heng Yue , Qinlin Zhong
China's Anti‐Corruption Campaign and Financial Reporting Quality
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 1015 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
402
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,402
RANK
130,913
1 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies