Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Is the Client King? Evidence from Affiliated-Analyst Recommendations in China’s Split-Share Reform

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 3 May 2019 Last revised: 15 Jun 2019

Kam C. Chan

Western Kentucky University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Xuanyu Jiang

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE)

Donghui Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Nianhang Xu

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Hong Zeng

Chongqing University - School of Economics and Business Admininstration

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 2, 2019

Abstract

China’s split-share reform of 2005 (the Reform) converts the previously restricted shares held by founding shareholders to shares tradable on the open market. Against this backdrop, we study how underwriter-affiliated analysts and firms’ large shareholders interact in the event of the latter’s sales of restricted shares. We document that recommendations made by affiliated analysts are significantly more optimistic when firms’ large shareholders plan to sell their restricted shares. This optimism, however, is associated with negative post-sale stock returns, suggesting that large shareholders profit from share sales but at the cost of public investors. Furthermore, large shareholders sell more restricted shares through the affiliated brokerages with analysts issuing more optimistic recommendations and firms under their control are more likely to appoint such brokerages as lead underwriters when they refinance in the future. For the affiliated analysts, they conduct more site visits to the firms after the share sales, thereby improving their earnings forecast accuracy. Our analysis shows how conflicts of interest by financial intermediaries arise following the Reform and leads to large shareholders’ extraction of rents from public investors. These findings have regulatory implications.

Keywords: analyst recommendations; conflict of interest; split-share reform

JEL Classification: G24; G30; G38

Suggested Citation:

Chan, Johnny and Jiang, Xuanyu and Wu, Donghui and Xu, Nianhang and Zeng, Hong, When Is the Client King? Evidence from Affiliated-Analyst Recommendations in China’s Split-Share Reform (April 2, 2019). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3364343 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3364343
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
V Atanasov , B Black
Shock-based causal inference in corporate finance and accounting research
Critical Finance Review , volume 5 , p. 207 - 304 Posted: 2016
Crossref
P Bajari , J Krainer
An empirical model of stock analysts' recommendations: Market fundamentals, conflicts of interest, and peer effects
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 2004
Crossref
B M Barber , R Lehavy , B Trueman
Comparing the stock recommendation performance of investment banks and independent research firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 85 , p. 490 - 517 Posted: 2007
Crossref
B Barber , J Lyon
Detecting long-run abnormal stock returns: The empirical power and specification of test statistics
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 43 , p. 341 - 372 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
287
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,302
RANK
242,713
3 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies