Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Director Compensation and Related Party Transactions

Forthcoming, Review of Accounting Studies

53 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2019

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Haihao Lu

University of Waterloo

Sasan Saiy

University of Waterloo

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 4, 2019

Abstract

This paper examines whether independent directors’ compensation is associated with related party transactions (RPTs). We focus both on directors’ total compensation and on their equity-based compensation. Employing hand-collected data for S&P 1500 firms, we find that independent directors’ compensation is significantly associated with RPTs. Specifically, we predict and find that level of compensation is positively related to RPTs, but we do not find equity-based compensation to be associated with RPTs. Next, we decompose the compensation measures into “market” (i.e., predicted) level and “excessive” components and find that the results are driven by the excessive components. This association between RPTs and director compensation is moderated by corporate governance mechanisms, suggesting that the association between director compensation and RPTs reflects a conflict of interest between insiders and shareholders. We also find some evidence that the effects of director compensation on RPTs are stronger for RPTs with directors compared with RPTs with non-directors, for non-business RPTs compared with business RPTs, and for ex post RPTs compared to ex ante RPTs.

Keywords: Related-Party Transactions, Director Compensation, Board Monitoring, Corporate Governance, Disclosure, Audit Committees, SFAS 57, Regulation S-X

JEL Classification: G30, G31, G32, M10, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Lu, Haihao and Saiy, Sasan, Director Compensation and Related Party Transactions (April 4, 2019). Forthcoming, Review of Accounting Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3365989
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Renée B Adams , Daniel Ferreira
Do Directors Perform for Pay?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 71 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Deborah S Archambeault , F Todd Dezoort , Dana R Hermanson
Audit Committee Incentive Compensation and Accounting Restatements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 965 - 92 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Balsam , Richard H Steven , John Gifford , Puthenpurackal
Related Party Transactions, Corporate Governance and CEO Compensation
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 44 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 854 - 94 Posted: 2017
Crossref
David A Becher , L Terry , I I Campbell , Melissa B Frye
Incentive Compensation for Bank Directors: The Impact of Deregulation
The Journal of Business , volume 78 , issue 5 , p. 1753 - 78 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,678
RANK
117,753
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies