Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Consequences of IFRS Adoption: The Role of Changes in Disclosure Quality

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2019 Last revised: 31 Jul 2020

Bin Li

Vanderbilt University - Owen Graduate School of Management

Gianfranco Siciliano

China Europe International Business School - Accounting & Finance Department

Mohan Venkatachalam

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 30, 2020

Abstract

This study adopts a two-step approach to highlight the disclosure quality channel that drives economic consequences of International Financial Reporting Standards [IFRS] adoption. This approach helps address the identification challenge noted by Leuz and Wysocki (2006) and offer direct evidence on the role of disclosure quality. In the first step, we document the impact of the IFRS mandate on changes in disclosure quality proxied by the granularity of line-item disclosure in financial statements. We find that IFRS-adopting firms provide more disaggregated information upon IFRS adoption, such as more granular disclosure of intangible assets and long-term investments on the Balance Sheet and greater disaggregation of depreciation, amortization, and non-operating income items on the Income Statement. In the second step, we link the observed disclosure changes to the benefits and costs of IFRS adoption. We show that greater disaggregated information due to IFRS adoption enhances market liquidity and decreases information asymmetry, but does not affect audit fees differentially. Our evidence has implications for standard-setters as they evaluate cost-benefit tradeoffs when considering disclosure changes in the future.

Keywords: IFRS adoption; Nonmissing line items; Disclosure quality; Market liquidity; Audit fees.

JEL Classification: M41; M48; G15.

Suggested Citation:

Li, Bin and Siciliano, Gianfranco and Venkatachalam, Mohan, Economic Consequences of IFRS Adoption: The Role of Changes in Disclosure Quality (July 30, 2020). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3366288 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3366288
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
388
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,833
RANK
175,011
12 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies