Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Busy Boards and Corporate Earnings Management: An International Analysis

Review of Accounting and Finance. 18 (4), 533-556

42 Pages Posted: 17 May 2019 Last revised: 28 Sep 2020

Stephen P. Ferris

University of Missouri at Columbia - Department of Finance

Min-Yu (Stella) Liao

Illinois State University - Department of Finance, Insurance and Law

Date Written: March 8, 2019

Abstract

Examining a set of firms from 46 countries, we explore whether busy independent directors, CEOs and audit committees effectively monitor corporate financial reporting. We find that firms with a higher proportion of busy independent directors or busy CEOs more extensively manage their earnings. Further, we discover that firms with a higher percentage of busy independent audit committee members have poorer financial reporting quality. This finding is consistent with the board and the audit committee monitoring the firm’s financial reporting while CEOs influence the reporting process itself. We determine that the adverse effect of board busyness on a firm’s earnings reporting quality is more pronounced in non-U.S. firms. We also discover that investor protection levels and national culture influence a firm’s earnings management.

Keywords: governance; boards; busy; audit; earnings management

JEL Classification: M41; M42; G3; G34

Suggested Citation:

Ferris, Stephen P. and Liao, Min-Yu (Stella), Busy Boards and Corporate Earnings Management: An International Analysis (March 8, 2019). Review of Accounting and Finance. 18 (4), 533-556, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3368365
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
P M Dechow , R G Sloan , A P Sweeney
Causes and consequences of earnings manipulation: An analysis of firms' subject to enforcement actions by the SEC
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 1996
Crossref
M L Defond , J Jiambalvo
Debt covenant violation and manipulation of accruals
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , issue 1-2 , p. 145 - 176 Posted: 1994
Crossref
M Faccio , L H Lang
The ultimate ownership of Western European corporations
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 65 , issue 3 , p. 365 - 395 Posted: 2002
Crossref
E F Fama , M C Jensen
Separation of ownership and control
The Journal of Law & Economics , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 301 - 325 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,433
RANK
257,340
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies