Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Toward a Theory of Internal Governance Structure of China’s large SOEs

51 Pages Posted: 7 May 2019 Last revised: 4 Mar 2020

Jim Huangnan Shen

School of Management, Fudan University ; The Growth Lab, Center for International Development, Harvard Kennedy School, Harvard University; Core China Research Center

Jun Zhang

Fudan University - China Center for Economic Studies (CCES)

Chien-Chiang Lee

Nanchang University

Weiping Li

City University of Macau; Sun Yat-sen University

Date Written: April 6, 2019

Abstract

This paper constructs a simple model to reveal the trade-off between decentralized and centralized governance structure of large state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in China. Our model shows that the delegation of decision making authority to SOE managers would enhance their initiative in terms of local investment while in meanwhile might lead to the ex-post moral hazard problem. The business empire building effect causes the misalignment between SOE managers’ personal interests and organizational interests as a whole. We introduce a mechanism so called constrained-delegation approach to illustrate the issues that by eliminating some of SOE managers’ empire building investment choices, the trade-off between centralization and decentralization with respect to the loss of control vs local initiative could be resolved. In the end of this paper, we also discuss the policy implications of such constrained-delegation organizational structure with particular reference to the rationale of the party-committee control within large SOEs in China.

Keywords: China; Large SOEs; The Business Empire Building Effect; Constrained Delegation; Party-Committee Control

JEL Classification: D86, L13, P20, P26, P31

Suggested Citation:

Shen, Jim Huangnan and Zhang, Jun and Lee, Chien-Chiang and Li, Weiping, Toward a Theory of Internal Governance Structure of China’s large SOEs (April 6, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3368234 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3368234
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Sarah Tang , Jun Zhang , Jim Huangnan Shen
Volatility, Adjustment Cost and Capital Misallocation: Evidence from Chinese Industrial Firms
30 Pages · Posted: 4 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 5 Nov 2021 · Downloads: 138
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sarah Tang
SOEs Reform and Capital Efficiency in China: A Structural Analysis
34 Pages · Posted: 22 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 60
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,272
RANK
379,149
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies