Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors of Good Governance Scores and Accounting Performance Affecting the P/E Ratio for Listed Companies on the Stock Exchange of Thailand

Asian Administration & Management Review, Vol. 2, No. 1, 2019

11 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2019

Thantip Setan

School of Accountancy, Sripatum University, Thailand

Monvika Phadoongsitthi

Thammasat University - Faculty of Commerce and Accountancy

Somboon Saraphat

Kasetsart University

Titaporn Sincharoonsak

Sripatum University

Montree Chuaychoo

Sripatum University

Pravas Penvutikul

Sripatum University

Date Written: January 1, 2019

Abstract

The objective of this research is to study the factors of good governance scores and accounting performance affecting the P/E Ratio for listed companies in the Stock Exchange of Thailand. The research methodology is multiple regression analysis for the data analysis. The accounting performance is tested as the mediator variable according to Baron & Kenny's concept (1986) by using the sample group consisting of the listed companies in the Stock Exchange of Thailand from 2012-2016. The data used in the study are a total of 1,710 data. The results of the study conclude that the factors of good governance scores have positive influence on the price-to-earnings ratio. For testing the mediator variables, it is found that the accounting performance is not the mediator variable between the good corporate governance scores and price-to-earnings ratio at the statistical significance level of 0.05.

Keywords: Good corporate governance scores, accounting performance, P/E Ratio

Suggested Citation:

Setan, Thantip and Phadoongsitthi, Monvika and Saraphat, Somboon and Sincharoonsak, Titaporn and Chuaychoo, Montree and Penvutikul, Pravas, Factors of Good Governance Scores and Accounting Performance Affecting the P/E Ratio for Listed Companies on the Stock Exchange of Thailand (January 1, 2019). Asian Administration & Management Review, Vol. 2, No. 1, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3368035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
W Albassam
Corporate Governance, Voluntary Disclosure and Financial Performance: An Empirical Analysis of Saudi Listed Firms Using a MixedMethods Research Design. Doctor of Philosophy Dissertation Posted: 2014
E Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
M Ammann , D Oesch , M Schmid
Corporate Governance and Firm Value: International evidence
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 36 - 55 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Baron , D Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: Conceptual, Strategic and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , issue 6 , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,162
RANK
318,538
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies