Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting and Financial Performance - A Study of Nigerian Breweries Plc

Adesunloro, B. R., Udeh, F. N., & Abiahu, M.F.C. (2019). Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting And Financial Performance- A Study Of Nigerian Breweries Plc. Archives of Business Research, 7(4), 45-57. DOI:10.14738/abr.74.6268.

13 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2019

Babalola Raphael Adesunloro

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Dr. Francis Udeh

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem Abiahu

CIBN Centre for Financial Studies

Date Written: April 10, 2019

Abstract

To succeed in the business world, organisations must provide to their investors and host communities, evidence of reliable and credible efforts to ensure their safety in the light of their operations. This study aimed at ascertaining to what extent and effect corporate social responsibility reporting has had on the performance of Nigerian Breweries Plc. Descriptive research design was adopted in conducting the study. A sample of 355 respondents drawn the staff of Nigerian Breweries Plc and using content analysis of the financial statement of Nigerian Breweries Plc in comparism with three purposefully selected Nigerian banks namely First Bank Plc, United Bank for Africa and Fidelity Bank Plc and structured questionnaires designed to seek information on the effect of corporate social responsibility reporting on performance of corporate organisations, the study made use of the t-test statistics at 5% level of significance to analyse data collected for the study. Findings from the study show that Nigerian Breweries Plc has not significantly disclosed her social responsibility accounting information as contained in the Annual Reports and Accounts of Nigerian Breweries Plc 2014-2017 as compared to other companies in Nigeria. However, it was discovered that the corporate social responsibility reports of Nigerian Breweries Plc has enhanced the financial performance of the company comparatively. This goes to imply that Nigerian Breweries Plc performance is positively influenced by its social responsibility culture. The study therefore recommends that Nigerian Breweries Plc as well as other Nigerian manufacturing companies should put in more efforts towards improving the lot of their stakeholders through adequate disclosure of corporate social responsibility information in their annual reports and accounts. It is recommended that management of Nigerian Breweries Plc should streamline its corporate social responsibilities on activities that will improve the company’s image and as well enhance the financial performance of the company.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Financial Reports, Organizational Performance

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Adesunloro, Babalola Raphael and Udeh, Francis and Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem, Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting and Financial Performance - A Study of Nigerian Breweries Plc (April 10, 2019). Adesunloro, B. R., Udeh, F. N., & Abiahu, M.F.C. (2019). Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting And Financial Performance- A Study Of Nigerian Breweries Plc. Archives of Business Research, 7(4), 45-57. DOI:10.14738/abr.74.6268., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3370063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
S A Aaronson
Corporate responsibility in the global village: The British role model and the American laggard
Business and society review , volume 108 , issue 3 , p. 309 - 328 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M C Abiahu , F N Udeh , M E Ogbekhilu
Modelling correlation between shareholders dividends and corporate performance in Nigeria
Journal of Modern Accounting and Auditing , volume 14 , issue 10 , p. 570 - 581 Posted: 2018
Crossref
E A Ademosu
Corporate social responsibility: The experience of the Nigeria banking system Posted: 2008-01-02
F M Ajide , A A Aderemi
The effects of corporate social responsibility activity disclosure on corporate profitability: Empirical evidence from Nigerian commercial banks
IOSR Journal of Economics and Finance (IOSRJEF) , volume 2 , issue 6 , p. 17 - 25 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
659
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,860
RANK
91,487
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies