Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incentives for Corporate Social Responsibility in India: Mandate, Peer Pressure and Crowding-Out Effects

47 Pages Posted: 6 May 2019

Sangeeta Bansal

Jawaharlal Nehru University - Centre for International Trade and Development

Madhu Khanna

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Agricultural and Consumer Economics

Joseph Sydlowski

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: January 1, 2019

Abstract

The Companies Act went into effect in India on April 1, 2014 making it the first law in the world to mandate that companies spend 2% of their profits on corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives. We use panel data for 39,736 firms with a difference-in-difference model to estimate the average treatment effect of the Act on firms ‘eligible’ for compliance and, in particular, to investigate the role of peer pressure in influencing a firm’s response to the Act in 2015 and 2016. We also apply the Regression Discontinuity Design method to estimate the average effect of treatment assignment for firms near the threshold of eligibility for compliance. We find that while the Act failed to achieve its 2% goal, it did lead to a statistically significant increase in the likelihood of reporting of CSR expenditures and to eligible firms spending an average of 1% of their profits on CSR. We also find that the otherwise positive and statistically significant effect of peer pressure in motivating CSR diminishes after controlling for the requirement of CSR expenditures proportional to profits by the Act. This implies a crowding out of intrinsic motivations for CSR by extrinsic effects due to the regulation.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, Companies Act, mandatory regulation

JEL Classification: L5

Suggested Citation:

Bansal, Sangeeta and Khanna, Madhu and Sydlowski, Joseph, Incentives for Corporate Social Responsibility in India: Mandate, Peer Pressure and Crowding-Out Effects (January 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3370838 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3370838
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
The credibility revolution in empirical economics: How better research design is taking the con out of econometrics
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S Bansal , M Khanna , S Jain
The Corporate Social Responsibility Act in India: An Early Assessment , p. 120 - 137 Posted: 2017
E B Barbier , J C Burgess
Innovative corporate initiatives to reduce climate risk: Lessons from
East Asia. Sustainability , volume 10 , issue 1 Posted: 2018
Crossref
C F Baum , M E Schaffer , S Stillman
Enhanced routines for instrumental variables/GMM estimation and testing
Stata Journal , volume 7 , issue 4 , p. 465 - 506 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
311
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,107
RANK
222,795
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies