Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compensation vs. Qualified Dividends for Shareholder-Employees After the TCJA

Kilpatrick, Bob G., and Dennis R. Lassila. (2018). Compensation vs. Qualified Dividends for Shareholder-Employees After the TCJA. The Journal of Taxation, Volume 129, No. 1, (July 2018) pp. 6-13.

9 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2019

Bob Kilpatrick PhD., CPA

Northern Arizona University

Dennis R. Lassila

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 1, 2018

Abstract

One important question facing shareholder-employees of small, closely-held C corporations is how to pay themselves for working in and/or running their corporations. Traditionally, C corporation shareholder-employees have been advised to pay themselves compensation instead of dividends, because compensation is generally deductible by the corporation, whereas dividends are not. The payment of compensation has been viewed as one way to mitigate the double taxation of C corporation net income. The combined amount of individual and corporate income taxes and employment taxes if the payment is in the form of compensation was typically smaller than if the payment were made in the form of qualified dividends. Thus, there has been a tendency for corporations to pay compensation rather than dividends to shareholder-employees.

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) has changed all that beginning in 2018. The reduction in the marginal tax rate for C corporations to 21 percent (down from 35 percent), the reduction in individual tax rates, and the retention of special low tax rates on qualified dividends substantially reduce the combined amount of taxes on qualified dividends relative to that on the same amount of compensation. We found that the combined amount of taxes on qualified dividends is less than that on compensation in many instances, especially when the amount of the payment to the shareholder-employee is $150,000 or less. This finding is significant because most small business owners take a yearly salary of less than $100,000.

Keywords: qualified dividends, compensation

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Kilpatrick PhD., CPA, Bob and Lassila, Dennis R., Compensation vs. Qualified Dividends for Shareholder-Employees After the TCJA (July 1, 2018). Kilpatrick, Bob G., and Dennis R. Lassila. (2018). Compensation vs. Qualified Dividends for Shareholder-Employees After the TCJA. The Journal of Taxation, Volume 129, No. 1, (July 2018) pp. 6-13., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3371179
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,486
RANK
446,506
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies