Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Vocational Skills Gap in Accounting Education Curricula: Empirical Evidence from the UK

International Journal of Management in Education, Forthcoming

34 Pages Posted: 7 May 2019

Ibrahem Alshbili

The Libyan Audit Bureau,Department of Corporate Governance, Dahra Squire, Tripoli, Libya

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Date Written: April 16, 2019

Abstract

This paper aims to investigate the relative importance of a set of vocational skills and the extent to which accounting educators in the UK incorporate these skills into their accounting education curricula so that students can run a successful accounting career upon their graduation. Using a questionnaire method, the data was collected from two major stakeholders; namely accounting educators and final-year accounting students. The findings indicate that there is a degree of overall agreement between the two groups opinions’ that vocational skills required by accounting employers encompass not only technical and cognitive skills but also transferable skills such as communication, self-reflection, teamwork and organisational skills. The results of this paper should be of interest to accounting educators, curriculum designers and faculty who are responsible for reviewing and updating accounting curricula.

Keywords: vocational skills; accounting education curricula; accounting educators; accounting students; UK

Suggested Citation:

Alshbili, Ibrahem and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed, The Vocational Skills Gap in Accounting Education Curricula: Empirical Evidence from the UK (April 16, 2019). International Journal of Management in Education, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3373034
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
M Adhikariparajul , A Hassan , M Fletcher , A A Elamer
Integrated reporting in UK higher education institutions. Sustainability Accounting
Management and Policy Journal, Forthcoming Posted: 2019
Crossref
W S Albrecht , R J Sack
Accounting education: charting the course through a perilous future
Accountig Education Series , volume 16 Posted: 2000
H Alhalwaki , A M M Hamdan
Factors affecting the implementation of internationalisation strategies in higher education institutions: evidence from Bahrain
International Journal of Management in Education , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2019
Crossref
H E Alkhyeli , A Ewijk , Van
Prioritisation of factors influencing teachers' job satisfaction in the UAE
International Journal of Management in Education , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
635
RANK
502,079
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies