Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Generalized Trust on Cost Stickiness: Cross-Country Evidence

The International Journal of Accounting (TIJA), Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 17 May 2019

Sven Hartlieb

University of Innsbruck

Thomas R. Loy

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Universität der Bundeswehr München

Brigitte Eierle

University of Bamberg

Date Written: April 2, 2019

Abstract

We investigate the impact of an informal social attribute on cost behavior. More specifically, we examine the effect of generalized trust (trust in others) on cost stickiness. Using a large international sample from 44 countries, we find that generalized trust significantly increases cost stickiness. Important rationales for this result are that managers in more trusting societies are more optimistic as well as committed to stable, long-term employment relationships. This study makes a significant contribution in understanding cost stickiness differences across the globe. Our results further complement prior research which has found, to the contrary, that trust and cost stickiness are negatively associated at the local level. Hence, our study corroborates the importance of distinguishing between local social capital and global generalized trust concerning their effect on economic outcomes.

Keywords: Cost Behavior, Trust, Social Capital, National Culture, Societal Attribute

JEL Classification: A13, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hartlieb, Sven and Loy, Thomas R. and Eierle, Brigitte, The Effect of Generalized Trust on Cost Stickiness: Cross-Country Evidence (April 2, 2019). The International Journal of Accounting (TIJA), Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3373819
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
P Aghion , Y Algan , P &amp; A Cahuc , Shleifer
Regulation and Distrust
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 125 , issue 3 , p. 1015 - 1049 Posted: 2010
Crossref
K R Ahern , D Daminelli , &amp; C Fracassi
Lost in Translation? The Effect of Cultural Values on Mergers around the World
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Y P Algan , Cahuc
Inherited Trust and Growth
American Economic Review , volume 100 , issue 5 , p. 2060 - 2092 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M C Anderson , R D N Banker &amp; S , Janakiraman
Are Selling, General, and Administrative Costs "Sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Brigitte Eierle , Sven Hartlieb , David Hay , Lasse Niemi , Hannu Ojala
Importance of Country Factors for Global Differences in Audit Pricing - New Empirical Evidence
International Journal of Auditing, forthcoming, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Forthcoming · 52 Pages · Posted: 17 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 25 Oct 2022 · Downloads: 307
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
353
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,662
RANK
194,508
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies