Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Matters for In-House Tax Planning: Tax Function Power and Status

The Accounting Review, forthcoming

Posted: 21 May 2019 Last revised: 15 Sep 2020

Matthew Ege

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Bradford Hepfer

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

John R. Robinson

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 1, 2020

Abstract

Social hierarchy theory predicts that the power and status of an organizational function have a first-order effect on the function’s ability to influence outcomes. We find that the rank of the title of the top tax executive is positively associated with tax planning after controlling for treatment effects. Our inferences remain when (1) using changes in the size of the c-suite as a shock to the relative power and status of the tax function and (2) examining promotions and demotions in title rank. Point estimates suggest that tax function power and status are up to 2.6 times as important as tax planning resources, up to 4.0 times as important as tax function-specific expertise, and more often than not more important than manager fixed effects. Overall, results suggest that the power and status of the tax function is often what matters most in determining tax outcomes.

Keywords: social hierarchy, power, status, tax function

JEL Classification: H25, L22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ege, Matthew and Hepfer, Bradford and Robinson, John R., What Matters for In-House Tax Planning: Tax Function Power and Status (July 1, 2020). The Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3375189 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3375189
 Not Available for Download
0 References
2 Citations
John (Xuefeng) Jiang , John R. Robinson , Maobin Wang
Sleeping with the Enemy: Taxes and Former IRS Employees
40 Pages · Posted: 21 Apr 2015 · Last revised: 9 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 515
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Thomas R. Kubick , Yijun Li , John R. Robinson
Tax Savvy Executives
Posted: 15 Feb 2020 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,197
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies