Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Size, Political Connections, and the Value Relevance of Environmental Enforcement in China

38 Pages Posted: 9 May 2019

Abdoul G. Sam

The Ohio State University

Xiaodong Zhang

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: April 20, 2019

Abstract

Curbing environmental pollution is a key priority in China as reflected in the adoption of policies such as “New Normal” and the takeover of environmental enforcement by the top leadership of the central government in 2015. In this paper, we use a dataset of publicly-traded firms in the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges and the event study methodology to gauge the reaction of the investor class to the new environmental enforcement regime. Our results indicate that, together, the announcement and implementation of the new enforcement regime spurred a significant decline of over $29 billion in shareholder value of polluting companies, suggesting that capital market participants expect increased regulatory costs for targeted companies. We also find that neither political connections nor firm size mitigated the severity of the market losses. Instead, larger firms and state-owned enterprises with excess capacity experienced bigger declines in market value.

Keywords: environmental enforcement, value relevance, firm size, political connections

JEL Classification: Q51, Q56, G14

Suggested Citation:

Sam, Abdoul G. and Zhang, Xiaodong, Firm Size, Political Connections, and the Value Relevance of Environmental Enforcement in China (April 20, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3375205 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3375205
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
Atici
Cemal 2009 Carbon emissions in Central and Eastern Europe: environmental Kuznets curve and implications for sustainable development
Sustainable Development , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 155 - 160
Crossref
Beckerman
Economic growth and the environment: Whose growth? Whose environment?
World development , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 481 - 496 Posted: 1992
Crossref
X Bi , M Khanna
Reassessment of the Impact of the EPA's Voluntary 33/50 Program on Toxic Releases
Land Economics , volume 88 , issue 2 , p. 341 - 361 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Ye Cai , Carrie H Pan , Meir Statman
Why do countries matter so much in corporate social performance
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 41 , p. 591 - 609 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,872
RANK
649,230
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies