Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Accounting Expertise and the Mitigation of Strategic Auditor Behavior

The Accounting Review 96 (4): 289-314.

54 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2019 Last revised: 31 May 2023

James C. Hansen

Weber State University Goddard School of Business and Economics

Ling Lei Lisic

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

Michael S. Wilkins

University of Kansas

Date Written: July 2020

Abstract

Our study is motivated by the theory of credence goods in the auditing setting. We propose that audit committee accounting expertise should reduce information asymmetries between the auditor and the client, thereby limiting auditors’ ability to over-audit and under-audit. Consistent with this notion, our results indicate that when audit committees have accounting expertise, clients (1) pay lower fees when changes in standards decrease required audit effort; (2) pay a smaller fee premium in the presence of remediated material weaknesses; and (3) have a reduced likelihood of restatement when audit market competition is high. Our findings in the under-auditing setting generally are strongest among non-Big 4 engagements, consistent with non-Big 4 auditors being less sensitive to market-wide disciplining mechanisms such as reputation, legal liability, and professional regulation. We also provide evidence that the nature of audit committee members’ accounting expertise differentially impacts the committee’s ability to curtail over- and under-auditing.

Keywords: audit committee, accounting expertise, credence goods theory

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Hansen, James C. and Lisic, Ling Lei and Seidel, Timothy A. and Wilkins, Michael S., Audit Committee Accounting Expertise and the Mitigation of Strategic Auditor Behavior (July 2020). The Accounting Review 96 (4): 289-314., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3377737 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3377737
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees , volume 22 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economic Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
627
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,671
RANK
97,489
8 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies