Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management in Private Family Versus Non-Family Firms: The Moderating Effect of Family Business Generation

Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Borralho et al., 2019

27 Pages Posted: 30 May 2019

Joao Borralho

University of Lusofona

Dolores Gallardo-Vázquez

University of Extremadura - Faculty of Economic Science and Business Studies

Remedios Hernández-Linares

University of Extremadura - University Center of Mérida

Date Written: April 25, 2019

Abstract

The study addresses the signs of earnings management in unlisted companies, comparing the situation in family firms and non-family firms. We adopt arguments from agency theory, and stewardship theory, which are supplemented with the assumptions of socio-emotional wealth literature, to justify our research model. The sample is composed of 263 audited Spanish companies with a turnover of more than 200 million euros, which were analyzed in the period from 2011 to 2015. Results indicate that family firms are less prone to the practices of earnings management that the non-family firms, although the association between the family firm status and the earnings management is moderated by the firm generation. This work contributes to the literature on the quality of financial information in both family firms and unlisted companies, exploring new areas of research.

Keywords: Family vs non-family business, earnings management, agency theory, stewardship theory, socioemotional wealth.

JEL Classification: G

Suggested Citation:

Borralho, Joao and Gallardo-Vázquez, Dolores and Hernández-Linares, Remedios, Earnings Management in Private Family Versus Non-Family Firms: The Moderating Effect of Family Business Generation (April 25, 2019). Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Borralho et al., 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3377997
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A Ali , T Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosure by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Ariff , M Ibrahim , R Othman
Determinants of firm level governance: Malaysian evidence
Corporate Governance , volume 7 , issue 5 , p. 562 - 573 Posted: 2007
L Arnedo , F Lizarraga , S Sánchez
Does public/private status affect the level of earnings management in code-law contexts outside the United States? A study based on the Spanish case
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 305 - 328 Posted: 2007
Crossref
L Arnedo , F Lizarraga , S Sánchez
Discretionary accruals and auditor behaviour in code-law contexts: An application to failing Spanish firms
European Accounting Review , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 641 - 666 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
830
RANK
527,931
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies