Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Dividend Policy: A Study About the Impact of Changing Firm Characteristics on Dividend Payout Ratios

37 Pages Posted: 31 May 2019

Hira Ahmad

University of Western Ontario, Department of Economics, Students

Date Written: April 25, 2019

Abstract

There have been many studies in the past which have studied the relationship between dividend policy of a firm its characteristics. This study builds upon these and extends the research to publicly traded, North American firms in the past 30-year time period (1989-2019). The key question that this research paper aims to answer is which, if any, firm characteristics have any causal relationship with the dividend payout ratio of the firm. This study also looks at the appearing and disappearing phenomenon of cash dividends in the past 30 years and aims to reconcile the changing characteristics of the firms to this phenomenon. This is done by creating sub-periods within the dataset and observing the changing characteristics of the firms and the possible impact on the dividend payout ratios of the firms. It was found that size and liquidity produce statistically significant results in terms of having some relationship the dividend payout ratios of the firms. After performing the Granger-Causality test, it was determined that only liquidity of the firm has some causal relationship with the dividend payout ratio of a firm.

Keywords: Dividend payout ratio, firm characteristics, liquidity and size of a firm

Suggested Citation:

Ahmad, Hira, Determinants of Dividend Policy: A Study About the Impact of Changing Firm Characteristics on Dividend Payout Ratios (April 25, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3378495 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3378495
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
F Easterbrook
Two agency-cost explanation of dividends
American Economic Review , volume 74 , p. 650 - 659 Posted: 1984
R F Engle
Wald, likelihood ratio and Lagrange multiplier tests in Econometrics
Handbook of Econometrics , p. 776 - 825 Posted: 2007
Crossref
E F Fama , K R French
Dividends, debt, investment, and earnings Posted: 1997
E F Fama , K R French
Testing trade-off and pecking order predictions about dividends and debt
Review of Financial Studies , volume 15 , p. 389 - 406 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,046
RANK
40,155
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies