Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Treatment of Veterans as an ESG Factor

NYU Stern School of Business

28 Pages Posted: 13 May 2019

Herbert Blank

NYU Stern

Date Written: January 11, 2019

Abstract

The majority of Americans consider positive treatment of military veterans as a social good. Similarly, the majority of corporate America considers the hiring and training of veterans to be a central Corporate and Social Responsibility (CSR) objective. Yet to date, none of the major Economic, Social and Governance (ESG) data research providers have included data related to this subject in their core offerings. This paper identifies Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) related to corporate practices regarding military veterans, then relates them to ESG KPIs, management quality and investment performance of publicly traded companies. The findings reveal that in ignoring factors relating to corporate treatment of military veterans, ESG data providers and their clients are missing out on a significant source of potential alpha.

Keywords: Military Veterans, Diversity, Inclusion, Portfolio Management ESG, Data Analysis, Alpha, KPI, risk management

JEL Classification: A, C, L, M

Suggested Citation:

Blank, Herbert, Corporate Treatment of Veterans as an ESG Factor (January 11, 2019). NYU Stern School of Business, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3379703 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3379703
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
America's Heroes At Work 2. Department of Labor's Veterans' Employment & Training Service
Dept
Veterans Affairs: Jobs
Dept
of Veterans Affairs: Vet Success
Dept
of Veterans Affairs: Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment Program
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,665
RANK
302,262
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies