Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Maintaining a Reputation for Consistently Beating Earnings Expectations and  the Slippery Slope to Earnings Manipulation

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 21 May 2019

Jenny Chu

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Patricia Dechow

USC Marshall School of Business

Kai Wai Hui

University of Hong Kong

Annika Yu Wang

University of Houston - Bauer College of Business

Date Written: November 21, 2018

Abstract

This paper investigates whether maintaining a reputation for consistently beating analysts’ earnings expectations can motivate executives to move from “within GAAP” earnings management to “outside of GAAP” earnings manipulation. We analyze firms subject to SEC enforcement actions and find that these firms consistently beat analysts’ quarterly earnings forecasts in the three years prior to the manipulation period and continue to do so by smaller “beats” during the manipulation period. We find that manipulating firms beat expectations around 86 percent of the time in the twelve quarters prior to the manipulation period (versus 75 percent for control firms) and that manipulation often ends with a miss in expectations. We document that executives of manipulating firms face strong stock market and CEO pressure to perform. Prior to the manipulation period, these firms have high analyst optimism, growing institutional interest, and high market valuations, along with powerful CEOs. Further, we find that maintaining a reputation for beating expectations is more important than CEO overconfidence and is incremental to CEO equity incentives for explaining manipulation. Our results suggest that pressure to maintain a reputation for beating analysts’ expectations can encourage aggressive accounting and, ultimately, earnings manipulation.

Keywords: earnings manipulation, consecutively beating earnings expectations, market pressure, CEO overconfidence, CEO power, reputation, goals, reference-dependent preferences, analysts’ forecasts and recommendations, institutional investors, overvaluation

JEL Classification: G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chu, Jenny and Dechow, Patricia and Hui, Kai Wai and Wang, Annika Yu, Maintaining a Reputation for Consistently Beating Earnings Expectations and  the Slippery Slope to Earnings Manipulation (November 21, 2018). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3379846
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,219
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies