Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Learners Found Transfer Pricing Difficult? Implications for Directors

Abeysekera, I. & Jebeile, S. 2019. Why Learners Find Transfer Pricing Difficult. Implications for Directors. Journal of International Education in Business, Vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 9-19. (DOI:10.13106/jafeb.2019.vol6.no1.9).

12 Pages Posted: 26 May 2019

Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Ton Duc Thang University

Sam Jebeile

University of Wollongong

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

A recent survey of Australian directors conducted by the Financial Reporting Council found that directors require a detailed understanding of technical accounting issues. With the aim of understanding learner difficulties in learning and applying higher learning material relevant to directors, this study explores the transfer pricing topic taught as a case presentation in an undergraduate accounting program at an Australian university. Before intervention with improvements, this study invited 25 students to take part in the study after they had learned the topic and been given one week to understand it. By adopting a transfer pricing problem presented in their essential reading and interviewing those students to gain further insights, the study found that learners experienced conceptual difficulties at various stages in attempting to learn. Intervention to ease learning difficulties was addressed through instructor training. The intervention improvements included using guided workbooks to develop a better understanding of concepts among learners and representing the problem at hand with diagrams. After intervention with improvements, this study repeated the same procedures with 25 students who had not taken part in the previous study and found that interventions increased the learning. Results have implications for most directors, who are novices to the detailed technical accounting issues of transfer pricing.


Keywords: Accounting, Interviews, Learning, Transfer Pricing

JEL Classification: I21, J49, M49

Suggested Citation:

Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com), Indra and Jebeile, Sam, Why Learners Found Transfer Pricing Difficult? Implications for Directors (2019). Abeysekera, I. & Jebeile, S. 2019. Why Learners Find Transfer Pricing Difficult. Implications for Directors. Journal of International Education in Business, Vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 9-19. (DOI:10.13106/jafeb.2019.vol6.no1.9). , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3379439 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3379439
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
M Bannert
Managing cognitive load, recent trends in cognitive load theory
Learning and Instruction , volume 12 , p. 139 - 146 Posted: 2002
Crossref
P Blayney , S Kalyuga , J Sweller
Interactions between the isolated-interactive elements effect and levels of learner expertise: experimental evidence from an accountancy class
Instructional Science , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 277 - 287 Posted: 2010
Crossref
P Blayney , S Kalyuga , J Sweller
The impact of complexity on the expertise reversal effect: experimental evidence from testing accounting students
Educational Psychology , volume 36 , p. 1868 - 1885 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Financial literacy of directors survey results
CAANZ (Chartered Accountants in Australia and New Zealand) Posted: 2016-06-24
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
909
RANK
730,194
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies