Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate Governance on the Working Capital Management Efficiency of Pakistani Manufacturing Firms

The IUP Journal of Applied Finance, Vol. 24, No. 4, October 2018, pp. 34-47

Posted: 23 May 2019

Aamer Shahzad

University of Sargodha - University of Sargodha Gujranwala Campus

Muhammad Imran Akram

University of the Punjab (PU) - Gujranwala Campus

Imtiaz Ahmad

University of Sargodha - University of Sargodha Gujranwala Campus

Date Written: October 30, 2018

Abstract

The present study examines the impact of corporate governance on the efficiency of working capital management. For this purpose, manufacturing firms listed on Pakistan Stock Exchange (PSX) are selected for the period 2013 to 2017. The results indicate that Corporate Governance Index (CGI) consists of working capital like cash, current ratio, accounts receivable turnover and inventory turnover. The board with more independent directors, dual leadership, and director ownership contributes efficiently in managing working capital. The internal audit committee and external (big four) auditor keep a check on firms’ accounts.

Suggested Citation:

Shahzad, Aamer and Akram, Muhammad Imran and Ahmad, Imtiaz, The Impact of Corporate Governance on the Working Capital Management Efficiency of Pakistani Manufacturing Firms (October 30, 2018). The IUP Journal of Applied Finance, Vol. 24, No. 4, October 2018, pp. 34-47, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3380216
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
716
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies