Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Camouflaged Indicators of Earnings Management

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 28 May 2019

Itay Kama

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Nahum D. Melumad

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 28, 2019

Abstract

We argue that, in response to increased scrutiny and greater attention to accruals versus sales, firms become more likely to engage in accrual conversion (AC) cash management aimed at aligning cash and accruals with earnings and sales (e.g., by factoring of receivables). In doing so, they reduce the statistical power of standard indicators of accrual-based earnings management—in effect, camouflaging their earnings management activity. This proposition is of interest because many influential papers on earnings management have utilized accrual-based indicators to reach their conclusions. Our results indicate that firms indeed became more likely to engage in AC cash management after the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), and that this tendency was particularly pronounced among firms with strong incentives (or enhanced ability) to perform and hide earnings management. In particular, our findings suggest that the post-SOX decrease in standard measurements of accrual-based earnings management, identified in prior research, is partially attributable to firms’ increased engagement in AC cash management activity.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Cash Management, Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Camouflaged Earnings Management

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kama, Itay and Melumad, Nahum D., Camouflaged Indicators of Earnings Management (February 28, 2019). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3380889
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
L Revsine , D W Collins , Johnson , W B
Financial Reporting and Analysis Posted: 2004
S Roychowdhury
Earnings management through real activities manipulation
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 42 , p. 335 - 370 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Shleifer , R Vishny
Large shareholders and corporate control
Journal of Political Economy , volume 94 , p. 461 - 448 Posted: 1986
Crossref
A Zang
Evidence on the tradeoff between real manipulation and accruals manipulation
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , p. 675 - 703 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,058
RANK
52,421
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies