Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Corporate profitability of Listed Diversified Holding Companies in Sri Lanka

International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting, 2018, Vol. 8, No. 1

11 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2019

Sarathadevi Anandasayanan

University of Jaffna - Faculty of Post Graduate Studies

Velnampy Thirunavukkarasu

University of Jaffna

Date Written: March 15, 2018

Abstract

Corporate Governance is basically concerned with ways in which all parties interested in the well-being of the firm (the stakeholders) attempt to ensure that managers and other insiders are always taking appropriate measures and adopting mechanisms that safeguard the interests of the stakeholders. The purpose of the study is to find out the impact of corporate governance on corporate profitability of Diversified Holding companies listed in Colombo Stock Exchange. Secondary data were used for the study.17 companies out of 20 were selected based on the availability of the data during the study period. In this study board size and board composition and CEO duality were considered as independent variables and Return on Assets (ROA) was used as profitability measurement. Further debt to equity ratio and firm size were considered as control variables. Hypotheses were tested using panel Least Square regression analysis. Descriptive statistics were computed for the Diversified Holding companies to represent the main characteristics of the study variables. The findings revealed that the influence of corporate governance on corporate profitability was statistically significant while debt to equity ratio and firm size have insignificant impact on corporate profitability.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Corporate profitability

Suggested Citation:

Anandasayanan, Sarathadevi and Thirunavukkarasu, Velnampy, Corporate Governance and Corporate profitability of Listed Diversified Holding Companies in Sri Lanka (March 15, 2018). International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting, 2018, Vol. 8, No. 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3380392
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Abdul K
The relationship of Capital Structure Decisions with Firm Performance: A Study of the Engineering Sector of Pakistan
International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 2162 - 3082 Posted: 2012
P Adekunle
Determinants of capital structure: empirical evidence from the Czech Republic
International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting , volume 54 , issue 7 , p. 2 - 21 Posted: 2009
A A Azeez
Corporate Governance and firm performance: Evidence from Sri Lanka
Journal of Finance and Bank Management , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 180 - 189 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Interrelationships between capital structure and financial performance, firm size and growth: comparison of industrial sector in KSE
European Journal of Business and Management , volume 4 , issue 15 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
236
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,202
RANK
296,056
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies