Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Top Management Characteristics and Historical Financial Performance on Strategic Management Accounting

Journal of Accounting and Organizational Change (2018), Vol.14, No.4, pp. 455-472

Posted: 30 May 2019

Odysseas Pavlatos

University of Macedonia - Accounting and Finance

Xara Kostakis

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 2, 2018

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to explore the impact of the top management team (TMT) characteristics and historical financial performance on strategic management accounting (SMA) usage.Objective data were extracted from annual financial statements, as well as data from questionnaires in a sample of 94 enterprises were used. Data analysis showed that one of the most important factors that influence the level of usage of SMA techniques is lagging historical performance of the enterprises. Those organizations that had low profitability in the past, due to the economic crisis, adopted and used innovative SMA tools more extensively, to improve their financial performance in the future. Based on Upper Echelons theory and Role theory, it was found that TMT characteristics (educational background, tenure, creativity) affect the adoption and the usage of SMA tools.

Keywords: Strategic Management Accounting, Role Theory, Historical Financial Performance, Top Management Characteristics, Upper Echelon Theory

Suggested Citation:

Pavlatos, Odysseas and Kostakis, Xara, The Impact of Top Management Characteristics and Historical Financial Performance on Strategic Management Accounting (November 2, 2018). Journal of Accounting and Organizational Change (2018), Vol.14, No.4, pp. 455-472 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3381502
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
778
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies