Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Firms Manage Their Credit Ratings? Evidence From Rating-Based Contracts

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 20 May 2019 Last revised: 13 Jul 2022

Eliza Xia Zhang

University of Washington, Tacoma - Milgard School of Business

Date Written: May 21, 2018

Abstract

This paper examines whether firms with rating-based performance-priced loan contracts (PPrating firms) manage cash flow from operations (CFO) and accruals to obtain better firm credit ratings. I find that for PPrating firms, both CFO management and accruals management are positively associated with firm credit ratings. In the cross-section, the relation of CFO management and accruals management with firm ratings is less pronounced when there is a larger benefit associated with inflated firm ratings. These results support the view that financial statement manipulation helps PPrating firms achieve more favorable ratings; when these firms are subject to more stringent rating-agency monitoring, such manipulation proves less effective.

Keywords: rating-based debt contracting; cash flow management; accruals management; firm credit ratings

JEL Classification: G18, G20, G28

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Eliza Xia, Do Firms Manage Their Credit Ratings? Evidence From Rating-Based Contracts (May 21, 2018). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3381259
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
W Alissa , S Bonsall , K Koharki , M Penn
Firms' use of accounting discretion to influence their credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , p. 129 - 147 Posted: 2013
H Ashbaugh , D Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firm's credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , issue 1-2 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
P Asquith , A Beatty , J Weber
Performance pricing in bank debt contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , issue 1-3 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2005
B Badertscher , D Collins , T Lys
Discretionary accounting choices and the predictive ability of accruals with respect to future cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 330 - 352 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,035
RANK
880,636
3 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies