Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Cash Flow Management Versus Accruals Management on Credit Rating Performance and Usage

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

37 Pages Posted: 24 May 2019 Last revised: 13 Jul 2022

Eliza Xia Zhang

University of Washington, Tacoma - Milgard School of Business

Date Written: April 17, 2019

Abstract

Corporate bond issuers attempt to influence bond ratings through their discretion over reported numbers, which could diminish credit rating quality. I find that cash flow management is negatively associated with rating quality, while accruals management is not. These results suggest that rating agencies fail to adjust for cash flow management, but they undo accruals management. The differential results for cash flow management versus accruals management could be due to the rating agencies’ more skeptical attitude towards accruals and the lower cost of adjusting accruals management. The relation between cash flow management and rating quality is weaker for issuers with high leverage and issuers with prior ratings around the investment-/speculative-grade cutoff. Overall, the evidence suggests that rating management through managerial discretion over reported numbers has a detrimental impact on rating quality, but only via the cash flow component. Fortunately, the bond market understands the implications of cash flow management on rating quality and relies less on ratings in response to cash flow management.

Keywords: Cash flow management; Accruals management; Corporate bond rating quality; Credit rating agencies; Bond yield spread

JEL Classification: M41; G24; G18

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Eliza Xia, The Impact of Cash Flow Management Versus Accruals Management on Credit Rating Performance and Usage (April 17, 2019). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3381253
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
W Alissa , S Bonsall , K Koharki , M Penn
Firms' use of accounting discretion to influence their credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , issue 2-3 , p. 129 - 147 Posted: 2013
B Badertscher , D Collins , T Lys
Discretionary accounting choices and the predictive ability of accruals with respect to future cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 330 - 352 Posted: 2012
D C Badoer , C Demiroglu
The relevance of credit ratings in transparent bond markets. The Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , p. 42 - 74 Posted: 2019
M Baker , J Stein , J Wurgler
When does the market matter? Stock prices and the investment of equitydependent firms
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , p. 969 - 1005 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,071
RANK
805,600
1 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies