Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Effectiveness and Family Firms: Impact on Performance

Jihad Al-Okaily, Salma Naueihed, (2019) "Audit Committee Effectiveness and Family Firms: Impact on Performance", Management Decision doi:10.1108/MD-04-2018-0422

Posted: 17 May 2019

Jihad Al-Okaily

American University of Beirut - School of Business

Salma Naueihed

American University of Beirut - Olayan School of Business

Date Written: April 30, 2019

Abstract

Purpose - The purpose of this study is to empirically examine the relationship between audit committee characteristics and firm performance, and whether family ownership and involvement moderate the latter relationship.

Design/methodology/approach - Following Anderson and Reeb (2003), this paper estimates a two-way fixed effects model. A sub-sample analysis is used by first examining the impact of audit committee effectiveness on firm performance only in non-family firms and then only in family firms. A fully interacted model was also analyzed in the robustness tests.

Findings - This paper finds that the audit committee characteristics of size, expertise, and meeting frequency are positively and significantly related to non-family firm performance, while insignificantly related to family firm performance.

Research limitations/implications - The evidence reported in this paper may be of use for regulators and policy makers pondering corporate governance reforms, as well as for investors, managers, and minority shareholders concerned with firm performance and valuation.

Originality/value - To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study of its kind to examine the moderating effect of family control and involvement on the relationship between firm performance and audit committee effectiveness in terms of size, expertise, and meeting frequency.


Keywords: audit committee effectiveness, corporate governance, family firms, financial performance, family involvement, UK listed firms

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Al-Okaily, Jihad and Naueihed, Salma, Audit Committee Effectiveness and Family Firms: Impact on Performance (April 30, 2019). Jihad Al-Okaily, Salma Naueihed, (2019) "Audit Committee Effectiveness and Family Firms: Impact on Performance", Management Decision doi:10.1108/MD-04-2018-0422, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3381596
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
858
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies