Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Internal Control Problems on the Bid-Ask Spread under SOX Section 302

Accounting and Finance Research, Vol. 5, No. 1; 2016

11 Pages Posted: 29 May 2019

Shin Hyoung Kwon

Hanyang University ERICA

Date Written: January 26, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between firms’ internal control problems and the bid-ask spread using a sample of firms that disclose the effectiveness of internal controls in financial reports under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX). The bid-ask spread has been used as a proxy for information asymmetry among market participants. By controlling other variables that affect the bid-ask spread, this study shows that the bid-ask spread of ineffective firms has different patterns from that of effective firms in three windows (before, around, and after disclosure). Even though the bid-ask spread of ineffective and effective firms before disclosure is the same, the ineffective firms show higher (lower) bid-ask spread than did effective firms around (after) disclosure. Moreover, the results show that the difference in the bid-ask spread between the two groups of firms after disclosure disappears over time. These results indicate that internal control problems affect market participants’ perceptions of financial statements initially, but over time, participants attempt more actively to understand the financial reporting of firms with internal control problems than of those without.

Keywords: Internal control problems, Bid-ask spread, Information asymmetry, Sarbanes-Oxley Act

Suggested Citation:

Kwon, Shin Hyoung, The Effect of Internal Control Problems on the Bid-Ask Spread under SOX Section 302 (January 26, 2016). Accounting and Finance Research, Vol. 5, No. 1; 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3382625
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , Jr , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , Jr , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies on firm risk and cost of equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Barnea , D E Logue
The effect of risk on the market maker's spread
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 31 , issue 6 , p. 45 - 49 Posted: 1975
Crossref
Jean B&eacute;dard
Sarbanes Oxley Internal Control Requirements and Earnings Quality
Pages: 41 Posted: 24 Aug 2006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
776
RANK
841,369
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies