Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Moderating Effect of Audit Quality on the Relation Between Shareholder Activism and Earnings Management: Evidence From France

Contemporary Economics, Vol. 13 No. 1, pp.63-78, 2019

16 Pages Posted: 30 May 2019

Souha Siala Bouaziz

University of Sfax - Faculty of Economics and Management (FSEGS)

Anis Jarboui

Independent; University of Sfax - Faculty of Economics and Management (FSEGS)

Date Written: March 31, 2019

Abstract

The present paper aims to provide empirical evidence regarding the impact of shareholder activism on earnings management. Specifically, it is focused on investigating the moderating role of an external governance mechanism such as external audit quality. Based on a sample of French companies listed on the French stock market index (SBF 120 index) from 2008 to 2012, we apply several multiple regressions using a standard methodology devised by Aiken and West (1991). We find that external audit quality plays a moderating role between shareholder activism and earnings management in such a way that it greatly helps to attenuate the relationship in the presence of high-quality external audits.

Keywords: shareholder activism, discretionary accruals, earnings management, audit quality index

JEL Classification: M41, M420, M480

Suggested Citation:

Siala Bouaziz, Souha and Jarboui, Anis and Jarboui, Anis, The Moderating Effect of Audit Quality on the Relation Between Shareholder Activism and Earnings Management: Evidence From France (March 31, 2019). Contemporary Economics, Vol. 13 No. 1, pp.63-78, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3384521
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple regression: Testing and interpreting interactions Posted: 1991
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of accounting research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
E W Astami , R Rusmin , B Hartadi , J Evans
The role of audit quality and culture influence on earnings management in companies with excessive free cash flow: Evidence from the AsiaPacific region
International Journal of Accounting & Information Management , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 42 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Pallab Kumar Biswas , Md. Hamid Ullah Bhuiyan
Corporate Governance and Firm Performance: Theory and Evidence from Literature
Pages: 29 Posted: 27 Aug 2008 Last revised: 28 Sep 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,259
RANK
256,420
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies