Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Bias and Disclosure

University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2019-304

40 Pages Posted: 31 May 2019

Joyce Tian

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Florin Sabac

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Date Written: April 4, 2019

Abstract

We examine the impact of biases in managerial judgment and in accounting reports on the disclosure of unverifiable private managerial information for stewardship purposes. We show that any biased managerial judgment in interpreting private information, and negatively biased accounting (conservatism), reduce timely disclosure of private managerial information by firms. Only positively biased (less conservative) accounting increases such disclosure by firms. Contrary to conventional wisdom, negative accounting biases, instead of counteracting positive managerial bias, act to further reduce disclosure, and thus the supply of timely infor-mation to capital markets. Consequently, we find that freedom from bias, both in managerial judgment and in accounting, more likely results in firms making timely disclosures.

Keywords: managerial bias, accounting bias, disclosure,neutrality, communica-tion, unverifiable managerial information, confirmatory role

Suggested Citation:

Tian, Joyce and Sabac, Florin, Information Bias and Disclosure (April 4, 2019). University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2019-304, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3385134 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3385134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
A Arya , J Glover
Performance measurement manipulation: cherry-picking what to correct
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 119 - 139 Posted: 2008
Crossref
L S Bamber , J X Jiang , I Y Wang
What's My Style? The Influence of Top Managers on Voluntary Corporate Financial Disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Berg , L Daley , F Gigler , C Kanodia
The value of communication in agency contracts: Theory and experimental evidence
Research Monograph Number 16. The Canadian Certified General Accountants' Research Foundation Posted: 1990
J Bertomeu , I Marinovic
A theory of hard and soft information
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2016-01
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,385
RANK
441,693
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies