Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Going Global: Factors Influencing the Internationalization of the Internal Audit Function

Posted: 31 May 2019 Last revised: 19 Jun 2019

Ronja Krane

University of Duisburg-Essen

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Date Written: March 1, 2019

Abstract

This study investigates the internationalization of internal audit functions by examining possible drivers of permanently employing internal auditors in foreign countries. As corporate scandals, the ongoing globalization and increased environmental complexity necessitate new approaches to control, the internal audit function is faced with finding the most suitable organizational form for providing enterprise-wide assurance. Survey data from 295 chief audit executives is used to construct an exploratory model of internal audit function internationalization whose development is supported by fourteen preliminary in-depth interviews with internal audit practitioners. Positive effects on the degree of the internal audit function’s internationalization are observed for company complexity, audit committee and supervisory board oversight, the use of local expertise, as well as company’s affiliation to the financial sector and firm size. A focus on the internal audit function’s cost efficiency is negatively associated with its degree of internationalization. This paper adds to the growing literature on internal auditing while filling a research gap on internal audit function staffing practices in the international context.

Keywords: internal audit, internationalization, organizational structure, enterprise-wide assurance

JEL Classification: M00, M16, M42

Suggested Citation:

Krane, Ronja and Eulerich, Marc, Going Global: Factors Influencing the Internationalization of the Internal Audit Function (March 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3385346 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3385346
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,139
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies