Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Unemployment Rate Determinants: A Study on Volkswagen’s 'Diesel Scandal'

24 Pages Posted: 17 May 2019

Adila Hanani Abdul Hamid

universiti utara malaysia

Date Written: May 9, 2019

Abstract

Corporate governance is a system by which a company is controlled and directed. There are six principles of corporate governance which are accountability, transparency, fairness, sustainability, independence and responsibility. Scandal arises when the board of directors violates these principles. This study aims to investigate the influence of firm-specific factors (return on assets (ROA), return on equity (ROE) and Altman-Z) and macroeconomic factors (gross domestic product (GDP), inflation rate, unemployment rate and Tobin’s q) affecting the corporate governance performance of Volkswagen. Multiple regression analysis of firm-specific factors and macroeconomic factors is conducted for the year from 2013 to 2017. The findings and analysis show that macroeconomic factor (unemployment) have a greater influence on the company’s corporate governance performance as compared to firm-specific factors. The rise in unemployment indicates that the economy is unstable, companies will try to cut down their operation costs in order to survive and usually they will retrench their employees and/or reducing the wages. Having a fully functional board of directors will be too costly to maintain, hence the company will decide to even reduce the remuneration payment of the board of directors. This will cause the efficiency of the board of directors to drop as they will no longer have the encouragement to fulfil their fiduciary duty. As a result, the corporate governance performance of the company will drop.

Keywords: Corporate Governance Index (CGI), Macroeconomic Factors, Unemployment Rate

Suggested Citation:

Abdul Hamid, Adila Hanani, Corporate Governance and Unemployment Rate Determinants: A Study on Volkswagen’s 'Diesel Scandal' (May 9, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3385240 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3385240
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
R Armstrong
The Volkswagen Scandal Shows that Corporate Culture Matters Posted: 2017-01-14
J S Baek , J K Kang , K S Park
Corporate governance and firm value: Evidence from the Korean financial crisis
Journal of Financial economics , volume 71 , issue 2 , p. 265 - 313 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J Bogage
Volkswagen Agrees to Pay Consumers Biggest Auto Settlement in History Posted: 2016-06-27
W H Buiter
James Tobin: an appreciation of his contribution to economics Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
455
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,004
RANK
145,263
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies