Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Corporate Governance Index: A Study on Toyota Company Recall Scandal

24 Pages Posted: 31 May 2019

Xiangchen Zhou

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: May 9, 2019

Abstract

Companies involved in the scandal within the company or person acting on behalf of the company alleged or actual wrongdoing. The purpose of this study was to investigate factors affecting Toyota's corporate governance index during the Toyota recall scandal. The analysis of Toyota's financial statements from 2007 to 2011 was carried out and analyzed by research. The findings and analysis indicate that Toyota's corporate governance index is primarily influenced by Tobin's Q and release rate. The study also shows that Toyota should take the lead in putting business ethics and customer safety first, rather than cost savings, seeking more benefits and more market share. In addition, Toyota should still do corporate governance to produce high-quality products so that the company can return to normal levels and get rid of the scandal.

Keywords: corporate governance index, bankruptcy or Altman Z, Tobin Q, release rate, macroeconomic and scandals

Suggested Citation:

Zhou, Xiangchen, Corporate Governance and Corporate Governance Index: A Study on Toyota Company Recall Scandal (May 9, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3385229 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3385229
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Adam , H
How the Q Ratio (Tobin's Q Ratio) Works Posted: 2019
S Bhagat , B Bolton
Corporate governance and firm performance
Journal of corporate finance , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 257 - 273 Posted: 2008
Crossref
H Bradsher
Prius Brake Inquiry May Be Another Blow for Toyota
J Posted: 2010
K H Chung , S W Pruitt
A simple approximation of Tobin's q
Financial Management , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 70 - 74 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
828
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,236
RANK
67,889
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies