Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bankruptcy and Corporate Governance: The Impact of Firm Performance and Macroeconomic Factors

37 Pages Posted: 31 May 2019

Amr Fahmi Omar Faqera

Universiti Utara Malaysia - School of Economics, Finance and Banking

Date Written: May 9, 2019

Abstract

Corporate governance issues have been having the share of attention from researchers for over three decades owing to the increasing of global economic crisis. Miss management and less practice of corporate governance can cause by both internal and external factors, which is probably due to the inefficient management or breakdowns in internal procedures, human errors and systems failures. It is important for an organization to practice of corporate governance efficiently to avoid the fall of corporate governance and run the company in the best way. The collapse of Northern Rock in 2008 was the first major run on a UK retail bank since 1866. This study addresses the case of Northern Rock bank fraudulent accounting in 2008 and examines its implications for setting accounting standards while considering the linkage between theory and practice, also, this study aims to investigate the influence of the elements of corporate governance factors and macro-economic factors affecting the performance of elements of corporate governance before the scandal years and after scandal years in Northern Rock bank among five years. Moreover, this study used Z-Score bankruptcy model, return on asset and return on equity as control variables. Based on the statistical results, the descriptive statistics illustration that the overall average return on asset (ROA) of the company is high negative with score of -17%. This helps as a benchmark and indicates that Northern Rock bank on average -17% of less profit specially after scandal year. On the other hands, there is a positively significant influenced between Altman Z and equity performance (ROE). Overall, the lower the score, the higher the risk of bankruptcy. For instance, a Z-Score above 0.001 shows financial soundness; underneath 0.10 recommends a high probability of failure.

Keywords: corporate governance, firm performance, Altman Z, ROA, ROE

JEL Classification: G3, G32

Suggested Citation:

Faqera, Amr Fahmi Omar, Bankruptcy and Corporate Governance: The Impact of Firm Performance and Macroeconomic Factors (May 9, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3385290 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3385290
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
M F A Manaseer , R M Al-Hindawi , M A Al-Dahiyat , I I Sartawi
Posted: 2012
The impact of corporate governance on the performance of Jordanian Banks
European Journal of Scientific Rcscnrch , volume 67 , issue 3 , p. 349 - 359
Crossref
M A Abdurrouf
The relationship between corporate governance and value of the firm in developing countries: Evidence from Bangladesh
The International Journal of Applied Economics and Finance , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 237 - 244
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
306
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,491
RANK
226,777
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies