Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinant of Corporate Governance in Wal-Mart de Mexico (WALMEX)

30 Pages Posted: 31 May 2019

Mohammad Amir Haikal Ghazali

University Utara Malaysia (UUM)

Date Written: May 9, 2019

Abstract

The purpose of this study is conducted is to determine the impact of corporate governance index of Wal-Mart de Mexico in relation to its determinants. When carried out this study, five-year data from annual report of Wal-Mart de Mexico was extracted start from year 2004 to 2008. Corporate governance index (CGI) has become dependent variable of this study and was used to study its relationship with independent variable which consist of firm-specific factors (return on asset (ROA), return on equity (ROE), Tobin’s Q and Altman Z) and macroeconomic factors (Gross Domestic Product (GDP), unemployment rate and inflation rate). To obtain the correlation and regression result on what factor that influence the corporate governance index of Wal-Mart de Mexico, enter method was used. Based on regression result of this study, Tobin’s Q become factor that most significant influence and give impact to the corporate governance index of Wal-Mart de Mexico (WALMEX).

Keywords: Corporate Governance Index, Tobin’s Q, Impact, Independent Variable, Firm-Specific Factors

Suggested Citation:

Ghazali, Mohammad Amir Haikal, Determinant of Corporate Governance in Wal-Mart de Mexico (WALMEX) (May 9, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3385214 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3385214
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
References Bai , C Liu , Q Lu , J Song , F M Zhang , J
Corporate governance and market valuation in China
Journal of Comparative Economics , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 599 - 616 Posted: 2004
Crossref
D Barstow
Wal-Mart Hushed Up a Vast Mexican Bribery Case. The New York Times Posted: 2012-04-21
B Black
The corporate governance behavior and market value of Russian firms
Emerging Markets Review , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 12 - 19 Posted: 2001
Crossref
H Blodget
BUSTED: Walmart Caught in Huge Bribery Scandal --Senior Management Knew About It and Tried to Cover It Up Posted: 2012-04-22
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,847
RANK
253,593
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies