Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Bankruptcy of Transmile Group Berhad: A Study of Firm Specification and Macroeconomic in Malaysia

30 Pages Posted: 31 May 2019

Shu Khim Liau

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: May 9, 2019

Abstract

Bankruptcy of the company can caused by both internal and external factors, which is corporate governance index, Return on asset (ROA), Return on equity (ROE), Tobin’s Q, GDP per capita (USD), unemployment rate and exchange rate. It is to identify which factors are the most important for the company to sustain the ability to continue the business. The data used to conduct this research are extracted from annual reports of this company from year 2005 to 2009. This study aims to investigate the impact of bankruptcy on Transmile Group Berhad’s consequence and reputation, coupled with its national, social and economic impact. The analysis and findings shows that the external factor (GDP per capita) has a greater impact on the Altman Z-score among the Transmile Group Berhad as compared to the internal factors. This study also suggest that it is necessary for a firm is capable to concentrate on the economy of that country to make sure they can manage the firm properly although the economy is not good on that time. Besides, the company should manage to reduce the probability of scandal to happen in their firm. It can achieved by make sure the independent of director and disclose the information of company.

Keywords: GDP per capita, Altman Z-score

Suggested Citation:

Liau, Shu Khim, Corporate Governance and Bankruptcy of Transmile Group Berhad: A Study of Firm Specification and Macroeconomic in Malaysia (May 9, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3385207 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3385207
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,455
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,783
RANK
30,340
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies