Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance: A Study on Shengzhen Airlines Scandals

18 Pages Posted: 31 May 2019

Shengjie Liu

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: May 9, 2019

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to explore the relationship between profitability and corporate governance of Shenzhen Airlines. I picked out the five samples and study the relationship of the corporate governance and scandal, corporate governance and bankruptcy or Altman Z, the relationship between corporate governance and performance, the relationship between corporate governance and Tobin Q, the relationship between corporate governance and the relationship between macroeconomics, this study used 2009 to 2013 years in a row in its annual report from the enterprise to obtain the second-hand data for research. The dependent variable of the relationship between corporate regulation and risk factor variables such as ROA, 'ROE, Tobin's Q, AltmanZ, GDP per capital, unemployment rate and exchange rate. Correlation and regression results were obtained by using SPSS to observe the significance level of risk and profit. Based on the results obtained, the regression analysis shows that only three of the seven factors, ROA, Tobin's Q and AltmanZ, have the greatest impact on the profit margin.

Keywords: profitability, corporate governance, scandal, ROA, 'ROE, Tobin's Q, AltmanZ, GDP per capital, unemployment rate and exchange rate

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Shengjie, Corporate Governance: A Study on Shengzhen Airlines Scandals (May 9, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3385209 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3385209
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,047
RANK
534,717
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies