Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The European Union's 2014 Non-Financial Reporting Directive: Mandatory Ex Post Disclosure - But Does It Need Improvement?

Chapter 14 in Amissi Melchiade Manirabona & Yenny Vega Cárdenas, eds., Extractive Industries and Human Rights in an Era of Global Justice: New Ways of Resolving and Preventing Conflicts (LexisNexis Canada, 2019), pp. 359-381.

24 Pages Posted: 9 May 2019

W. Gregory Voss

University of Toulouse Capitole; University of Toulouse Capitole; Université Toulouse Capitole

Date Written: May 8, 2019

Abstract

This chapter introduces European Union’s 2014 Non-Financial Reporting Directive (NFR Directive), considered a first step in the field of mandatory sustainability reporting, prior to analyzing the need for it to be improved. The author begins by setting out the historical context, both on the international and EU levels, including a new EU definition of corporate social responsibility (CSR) that envisages non-voluntary action. While the emphasis is placed on the extractive industries, the chapter’s treatment of the issue is of more general interest. The NFR Directive, which has been described as an example of the reflection in law and regulation of the United Nations Guiding Principles, is detailed through the legislative proposal and negotiations that led to its adoption, and through its content, including environment, social and employment reporting, which extends to a diversity policy description for publicly-traded companies governed by member State law. The NFR Directive is seen as part of an international process, complementing measures at the international level to improve financial reporting transparency, such as those of the OECD, the G20 and the G8. However, a certain amount of discretion is accorded to the EU member States in the implementation of the Directive into national law (allowing for the possibility of lack of harmonization), and elements such as the legislation’s ex-post focus and limited scope, and the lack of an auditing mechanism have been subject to criticism. The chapter concludes with a discussion of opportunities for improvement.

Keywords: EU law, European Union, CSR, corporate social responsibility, non-financial reporting, non-financial reporting directive, environmental reporting, social reporting, employment reporting, sustainability reporting, United Nations Guiding Principles, diversity policy, auditing, accounting, human rights

JEL Classification: K2, K29, K31, K32, K33

Suggested Citation:

Voss, W. Gregory, The European Union's 2014 Non-Financial Reporting Directive: Mandatory Ex Post Disclosure - But Does It Need Improvement? (May 8, 2019). Chapter 14 in Amissi Melchiade Manirabona & Yenny Vega Cárdenas, eds., Extractive Industries and Human Rights in an Era of Global Justice: New Ways of Resolving and Preventing Conflicts (LexisNexis Canada, 2019), pp. 359-381., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3385085
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Ibid
, volume 305
Crossref
Ibid
, volume 307
Crossref
Ibid
, p. 300 - 301
Crossref
Nfr Eu , Directive
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
294
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,881
RANK
236,690
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies