Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bankruptcy and Corporate Governance: The Impact of Firm Specific Factors and Macroeconomic

22 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2019

Chin Shin Yim

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: May 11, 2019

Abstract

The aim of this study is to identify the cause of scandals that faced by Malaysia Airlines Berhad (MAS) in year 2001. One of the causes of this scandals is about corporate scandals. A corporate scandal means that it is involves alleged or actual unethical behavior by people acting within or on behalf of a corporation. Many recent corporate collapses and scandals have involved false or inappropriate accounting of some sort. Besides that, this study was carried out using the secondary data which was obtained from annual report for five years that is from years 1999 until year 2003. Return on asset (ROA) has been as the dependent variable to study its relationship with the independent variables such as Return on equity (ROE), Unemployment rate, Exchange rate, corporate governance index, Tobin Q and Altman Z. The enter method was used to obtain the correlation and regression result to observe significance level of the risk with the profits. And the Altman Z data is used to identify the probability of bankruptcy in this five years because of the scandals that face by MAS. Based on the result attained, the regression result show that the company of MAS might facing the bankruptcy problem in year 2000 until 2002 where the financial performance is low. While the loan of the company is higher. This causes can refers to data of ROA, ROE and Altman Z where the data of Altman Z show that in year 2002 is lower.

Keywords: Corporate Governance Index, ROA, ROE, Altman Z, Tobin Q, Unemployment rate, Exchange rate

Suggested Citation:

Yim, Chin Shin, Bankruptcy and Corporate Governance: The Impact of Firm Specific Factors and Macroeconomic (May 11, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3386607 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3386607
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
M U Ararat
Does Macroeconomic Performance affect Corporate Governance Posted: 2003
S B Bolton
Retrieved Corporate Governance and Firm Performance Posted: 2007-04
Bursa Malaysia
Annual Report Malaysia Airlines Berhad
A A Chadha
The Journal of Law & Economics. Retrieved from Corporate Governance and Accounting Scandals Posted: 2005-10
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
370
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,973
RANK
184,612
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies