Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CFO Gender and Financial Statement Irregularities

Forthcoming, Academy of Management Journal

58 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2019

Vishal K. Gupta

University of Alabama - Department of Management

Sandra Mortal

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

Bidisha Chakrabarty

Saint Louis University - Richard A. Chaifetz School of Business

Xiaohu Guo

University of Alabama

Daniel B. Turban

University of Missouri - Department of Management

Date Written: May 14, 2019

Abstract

The increasing presence of women in upper echelon positions draws attention to the possible effects of executive gender on corporate decisions and actions. In this study, we formulate theory about the impact of CFO gender on financial misreporting to generate two key insights. First, we hypothesize that firms with female CFOs will have a lower likelihood of financial misreporting than comparable firms with male CFOs. Second, we argue that the relation between CFO gender and financial misreporting will be contingent on governance mechanisms (e.g., institutional ownership and analyst coverage) such that misreporting of firms with male CFOs will differ more from that of firms with female CFOs when governance is weak. Our results, based on a novel leading indicator of the likelihood of financial misreporting, provide support for our predictions. Various alternative econometric specifications, including (but not limited to) exogenous shocks, propensity score matching, and modeling treatment-effects, random effects, firm-fixed effects, and hybrid effects provide general support for our theory and hypotheses. Implications and directions for future research are discussed.

Keywords: Executive Gender, Upper Echelon, Female, Corporate Governance, CFO, Financial Misreporting

JEL Classification: J16, J30, J70, J71, J81

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Vishal K. and Mortal, Sandra and Chakrabarty, Bidisha and Guo, Xiaohu and Turban, Daniel B., CFO Gender and Financial Statement Irregularities (May 14, 2019). Forthcoming, Academy of Management Journal, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3387813 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3387813
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
141 References
A Abbasi , C Albrecht , A Vance , J Hansen
Metafraud: a meta-learning framework for detecting financial fraud
MIS Quarterly , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 1293 - 1327 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R B Adams
Women on boards: The superheroes of tomorrow?
Leadership Quarterly , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 371 - 386 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R B Adams , P Funk
Beyond the glass ceiling: Does gender matter? Management Science , volume 58 , p. 219 - 235 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Agnew , P Balduzzi , A Sunden
Portfolio choice and trading in a large 401(k) plan
American Economic Review , volume 93 , issue 1 , p. 193 - 215 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,059
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,442
RANK
48,269
14 Citations
141 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies