Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Society’s Acceptability of Carbon Taxes: Expectations and Reality

Energy Policy, Volume 131, August 2019, Pages 302-311

38 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2019

Craig Mclaughlin

University of Strathclyde, Department of Accounting and Finance, Students

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Thomas Glen

University of the West of Scotland

Aws Alhares

University of Huddersfield

Hazem Rasheed Gaber

Arab Academy for Science, Technology and Maritime Transport

Date Written: May 5, 2019

Abstract

This article seeks to examine accountants’ perceptions of carbon taxes in addressing climate change. Specifically, it aims at (i) a better understanding of accountants opinions on carbon taxes; (ii) how energy companies have adapted their business operations since introducing carbon tax. The article’s primary sources of data are (1) a 2018 survey distributed to 45 accounting professionals in Scotland, which specialise in energy finance and a formal interview with a regional finance director of a multinational energy company. The results show how the accountants are in favour the carbon tax due to its positive environmental impact, however, do not agree with the associated rising utility costs. Though, carbon tax, from an energy business’ perspective, is viewed negatively due to its effects on the end users of energy. This study contributes to the current research by demonstrating the role of accounting society in boosting public awareness of climate change. The findings of this study will help regulators and policy makers in the UK to evaluate the adequacy of current carbon tax reforms and to promote the public awareness of climate change to reduce carbon emissions.

Keywords: Carbon Emissions, Carbon Tax, Climate Change, Energy Companies, Environmental Tax

Suggested Citation:

Mclaughlin, Craig and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Glen, Thomas and Alhares, Aws and Gaber, Hazem Rasheed, Accounting Society’s Acceptability of Carbon Taxes: Expectations and Reality (May 5, 2019). Energy Policy, Volume 131, August 2019, Pages 302-311 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3387549
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
M Adhikariparajul , A Hassan , M Fletcher , A A Elamer
Integrated reporting in UK higher education institutions. Sustainability Accounting
Management and Policy Journal, Forthcoming Posted: 2019
Crossref
I Alshbili , A A Elamer , E Beddewela
Ownership types, corporate governance and corporate social responsibility disclosures: Empirical evidence from a developing country
Accounting Research Journal, Forthcoming Posted: 2019
Crossref
M S Andersen , P Ekins
Carbon-Energy Taxation: Lessons from Europe Posted: 2009
A Baranzini , S Carattini
Effectiveness, earmarking and labeling: testing the acceptability of carbon taxes with survey data
Environmental Economics and Policy Studies , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 197 - 227 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
954
RANK
635,835
2 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies