Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Reaction to the Going-Concern Modified Audit Opinions of Public Companies After the IFRS Adoption

Rio de Janeiro Federal University Department of Accounting, Working paper no. 001-2017

23 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2019

Adolfo Silva

Rio de Janeiro Federal University (UFRJ)

Moacir Sancovschi

Rio de Janeiro Federal University

Thaina da Silva Lourenço

Independent

Date Written: December 29, 2017

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to analyze the market reaction to the auditors’ going-concern audit opinions after the IFRS adoption in Brazil. The event study methodology was applied for the analysis of three public non-financial companies in the first year in which they received a qualified opinion about uncertainties as to their capacity to continue operating. We observed that there was just one company with a market reaction for stock price and traded volume on the day the auditors’ report was released. The results of this study are relevant because they present new evidence in the Brazilian context, which may be added to the existing literature and can be used as practical examples to understand the complexity and importance of the theme.

Keywords: Independent audit; Qualified opinion; Going concern; Event study

Suggested Citation:

Silva, Adolfo Henrique and Sancovschi, Moacir and Lourenço, Thaina, Market Reaction to the Going-Concern Modified Audit Opinions of Public Companies After the IFRS Adoption (December 29, 2017). Rio de Janeiro Federal University Department of Accounting, Working paper no. 001-2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3388031 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3388031
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
L Alberton , A Marquart
Parecer de auditoria das companhias listadas no nível 1 de governança corporativa da BOVESPA: uma análise das ressalvas, ênfases e empresas de auditoria entre os anos de , p. 43 - 55 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M P Arruda
Repercussão do anúncio dos pareceres de auditoria no preço das ações das companhias abertas brasileiras
Revista da Faculdade de Administração e Economia , p. 230 - 250 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Blay , M Geiger
Market expectations for first-time going-concern recipients
Journal of Accounting , p. 209 - 226 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M A G Canongia , A H Silva
Análise do impacto no mercado de capitais devido à adoção de Hedge Accounting por empresas brasileiras. Pensar Contábil , p. 4 - 17 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
928
RANK
601,090
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies