Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Ethical Behaviours and Firm Equity Value and Ownership: Evidence from the GPFG's Ethical Exclusions

72 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2019 Last revised: 9 Sep 2023

Vaska Atta-Darkua

Bucknell University

Date Written: November 20, 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates the implications for firm equity value and ownership structure when a large institutional investor publicly excludes a firm from its portfolio due to unethical behaviour. To achieve this, it makes use of the GPFG's ethical exclusions. On average, firms lose 1.72% of equity value around exclusion announcements, which is not reversed in the short term. For firms excluded under the product criteria, the effect seems to be driven by the divesting behaviour of ethics-sensitive investors.

Keywords: ethical investing, equity value, clientele change, ethical behaviour, institutional investors, sovereign wealth funds, sin stocks

JEL Classification: G11, G14, G23, G31, M14

Suggested Citation:

Atta-Darkua, Vaska, Corporate Ethical Behaviours and Firm Equity Value and Ownership: Evidence from the GPFG's Ethical Exclusions (November 20, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3388868 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3388868
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer , J Zechner
Large shareholder activism, risk sharing, and financial market equilibrium
Journal of Political Economy , volume 102 , issue 6 , p. 1097 - 1130 Posted: 1994
R V Aguilera , V J Bermejo , J Capapé , V Cuñat
The firms' reaction to changes in the governance preferences of active institutional owners Posted: 2019
N Aktas , E De Bodt , J.-G Cousin
Event studies with a contaminated estimation period
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 129 - 145 Posted: 2007
Arabella Advisors
The global fossil fuel divestment and clean energy investment movement Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
348
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,471
RANK
196,969
3 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies