Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Exchanges. How to Meet the Needs of Our Customers?

Banks and Bank Systems, Volume 6, Issue 3, 2011

15 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2019

José Costa

EURONEXT LISBON

Maria Eugenia Mata

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 17, 2011

Abstract

Merging Stock and Derivative Exchanges seems to be unavoidable – even across national borders – since the extraordinary development of telecommunication and computer technologies has made both of them the efficient and inexpensive constituents of any proposal for a centralized market. However, Exchanges are not exactly equal to any other commercial enterprise and, in particular, they are not yet separable from the sovereign vectors that were traditionally connected to them. In the future things may be different, but we cannot forget that the world is still made up of independent countries. This makes a multinational company of Exchanges a new type of conglomerate that has no historical reference to guide us. The model of a multinational corporation expanding from the mother country to overseas markets seems not to be quite the right approach. Additionally, different countries are in different stages of their development and evolution, and financial maturity is an area of vast differences among nations. Therefore, the central management team of this particular multinational firm cannot organize and run the company in exactly the same way as any other global company. If the whole group does not exist to meet all the details of each individual national market, the small and undeveloped markets will not be able to participate in this consolidation movement. Those countries that have entered the NYSE Euronext group are a vivid proof of the inconveniences of such participation. The experience of NYSE Euronext deserves the attention of scholars, as this is the vanguard case of an undertaking of this nature.

Keywords: Stock Exchanges, national and geographical stock-markets consolidation, NYSE, Euronext, OMX, Derivative Exchanges, options, futures, volatility

JEL Classification: G10, G20, G30

Suggested Citation:

Costa, José and Mata, Maria Eugenia, Stock Exchanges. How to Meet the Needs of Our Customers? (November 17, 2011). Banks and Bank Systems, Volume 6, Issue 3, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3389743 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3389743
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Amatori , Geoffrey Jones
Business history around the world" Cambridge Posted: 2003
Crossref
Aron A Gottesman , Jouahn Nam , H John , Kevin Thornton , Wynne
NYSE listings and firm borrowing costs: An empirical investigation
Global Finance Journal , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 26 - 42 Posted: 2010
Charles Babcock
NYSE Wants Growth From New Data Centers
W O Brown , J H Mulherin , Weidenmier , Md
Competing with the
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 123 , issue 4 , p. 1679 - 1719 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
866
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies