Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing Versus Consultancy: A Critique of the EU Law Reforms on the New Form of Auditing

Journal of Governance and Regulation (2016), Volume: 5, Issue: 3; 90-97

8 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2019

Hatice Kubra Kandemir

İzmir Katip Çelebi Üniversitesi

Date Written: May 17, 2016

Abstract

Auditors used to serve the interest of the shareholders only. However, there have been significant changes in terms of auditors’ role and their function. Auditors are now expected to verify financial statements, but at the same time give an assurance regarding the financial sustainability of the entity. Regarding the latter role, audit firms provide consulting services, including risk assessment and management services. However, the law does not assign the latter role to external auditors. This situation results in an expectations gap in relation to both the role of the auditors and the scope of the external auditing. In addition, the growing economic importance of consulting and the long years of auditor tenure is likely to impair auditor independence. This paper submits that the new form of auditing is not problematic but creates issues. First, the expectations between the users of the financial reports and auditors are wider. Second, auditors’ independence is damaged due to the long years of auditor tenure and dependence of non-audit fees generated from consultancy services that not related to audit. The recent law reforms issued by the European Commission has brought some important provisions in terms of filling the expectations gap, reinforcing auditor independence and reducing the familiarity threat. EU’s relatively strict rules on provision of non-audit services and audit firm rotation are expected to have an important impact in the audit market. A critical analysis of the new EU law is submitted with some policy recommendations.

Keywords: Auduting, Consultancy, Reforms, EU Law

Suggested Citation:

Kandemir, Hatice Kubra, Auditing Versus Consultancy: A Critique of the EU Law Reforms on the New Form of Auditing (May 17, 2016). Journal of Governance and Regulation (2016), Volume: 5, Issue: 3; 90-97, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3389855
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Benito Arrunada , Paz-Ares , Candido
Mandatory Rotation of Company Auditors: A Critical Examination
International Review of Law and Economics , volume 17 , issue 1 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Auditing Practices Board (APB)
Max H Bazerman , George Loewenstein , Moore , Don A
Why good accountants do bad audits
Harvard Business Review , volume 80 , issue 11 Posted: 2002
George J Benston , Al L Hartgraves
Enron: What happened and what we can learn from it
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 21 , issue 2 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
961
RANK
434,412
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies