Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Governance of Risk Management: The Importance of Directors’ Independence and Financial Knowledge

Risk Management and Insurance Review 22, 247-277, 2019

79 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2019 Last revised: 9 Jan 2023

Georges Dionne

HEC Montreal - Department of Finance

Olfa Maalaoui

Bloomberg L.P.; Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST) - Graduate School of Finance

Thouraya Triki

HEC Montreal

Date Written: January 4, 2018

Abstract

This paper tests the effects of the independence and ﬁnancial knowledge of directors on risk management and ﬁrm value in the gold mining industry. Our original hand-collected database on directors’ ﬁnancial education, accounting background, and ﬁnancial experience allows us to test the effect of each dimension of ﬁnancial knowledge on risk management activities. We show that directors’ ﬁnancial knowledge increases ﬁrm value through the risk management channel. This effect is strengthened by the independence of the directors on the board and on the audit committee. Extending the dimension of education, we show that, following unexpected shocks to gold prices, educated hedgers are more effective than average hedgers in the industry. As a policy implication, our results suggest adding the experience and education dimensions to the 2002 Sarbanes–Oxley Act and New York Stock Exchange requirements for ﬁnancial literacy.

Keywords: risk management governance, ﬁnancial knowledge, ﬁnancial and accounting education of director, ﬁnancial experience of director, independence of director, policy implications

JEL Classification: D83, G18, G30, G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Dionne, Georges and Maalaoui, Olfa and Maalaoui, Olfa and Triki, Thouraya, The Governance of Risk Management: The Importance of Directors’ Independence and Financial Knowledge (January 4, 2018). Risk Management and Insurance Review 22, 247-277, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3389540 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3389540
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
L Abbott , S Parker , G Peters
Audit committee characteristics and financial misstatement: A study of the efficacy of certain blue ribbon committee recommendations Posted: 2002
T R Adam
Capital expenditures, financial constraints, and the use of options
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 92 , p. 238 - 251 Posted: 2009
T R Adam , C S Fernando
Hedging, speculation, and shareholder value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 81 , p. 283 - 309 Posted: 2006
T R Adam , C S Fernando , J M Salas
Why do firms engage in selective hedging Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,294
RANK
511,510
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies