Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Ownership and the Capital Structure of Firms: Analysis of An Institutional Context from China

Published in China Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 11, Issue 3, September 2018, Pages 171-185. DOI: 10.1016/j.cjar.2018.07.001

Posted: 4 Jun 2019

Xiaohong Huang

University of Twente - Department of Finance & Accounting

Rezaul Kabir

University of Twente

Lingling Zhang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 1, 2018

Abstract

Emerging economies provide interesting scenarios for examining how institutional context influences the financing behavior of firms. In this study, we examine the capital structure of Chinese listed firms following the Split-Share Structure Reform of 2005. This reform allowed a reduction of government ownership by making government shares tradable. We find that the impact of government ownership on leverage is dependent on whether the government is the largest shareholder in a firm and whether the government ownership is through a parent state-owned enterprise. In addition, we document that the largest non-government shareholder positively influences leverage. Overall, our results reveal that the largest controlling shareholder, either government or non-government, has a significant impact on the capital structure of Chinese firms.


Keywords: Capital structure, Leverage, Ownership, Government ownership, China

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Xiaohong and Kabir, Rezaul and Zhang, Lingling, Government Ownership and the Capital Structure of Firms: Analysis of An Institutional Context from China (August 1, 2018). Published in China Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 11, Issue 3, September 2018, Pages 171-185. DOI: 10.1016/j.cjar.2018.07.001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3389400
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
781
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies