Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Peer Effects Among Financial Analysts

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2019

Truc (Peter) Do

University of Queensland - Faculty of Business, Economics and Law

Huai Zhang

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 17, 2019

Abstract

We hypothesize that the arrival of star analysts improves the performance of incumbent financial analysts while the departure of star analysts has the opposite effect. Our results consistent with this hypothesis are concentrated primarily in the tests related to star arrivals. Our findings are robust to an instrumental variable approach and a falsification test. In addition, we hypothesize that the impact of the arrival/departure of star analysts is more pronounced when the star analyst covers the same industry as the incumbents (especially for industries with high uncertainty), when the star analyst is more established, when the incumbent analysts are less experienced, and when the brokerage house has fewer existing star analysts. Overall, our paper offers evidence of peer effects among financial analysts, mainly through the arrival of star analysts.

Keywords: Financial Analyst, Star Analyst, Peer Effect, Knowledge Spillover

JEL Classification: D83, J24, J63

Suggested Citation:

Do, Truc (Peter) and Zhang, Huai, Peer Effects Among Financial Analysts (May 17, 2019). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3389624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
L Adler
New Survey Reveals 85% of All Jobs Are Filled Via Networking Posted: 2016
A Agrawal , J Mchale , A Oettl
Why Stars Matter Posted: 2014
Crossref
P Azoulay , C.-C Liu , T E Stuart
Social Influence Given (Partially) Deliberate Matching: Career Imprints in the Creation of Academic Entrepreneurs
American Journal of Sociology Posted: 2017
Crossref
J Baer , D Huang
Goldman Sachs Tells Interns to End the Late, Late Show; Young Bankers Told to Stay Away from Office between Midnight and 7 A.M. During Weekdays
Wall Street Journal Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,415
RANK
333,065
3 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies