Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Acquirer Overvaluation and Stock Payment in M&A Transactions: What Explains the Spurious Correlation?

52 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2019

Eric de Bodt

NHH

Jean-Gabriel Cousin

Univ. Lille, ULR 4112 - LUMEN

Micah S. Officer

Loyola Marymount University - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: May 14, 2019

Abstract

The widely cited empirical relation between equity misvaluation and the choice of merger currency has been recently called into question in a substantive manner. How can it be that the academic community was misled by this spurious correlation for more than a decade? We investigate this question and show that, most likely, failing to account for the abolishment of pooling in 2001 is the culprit. We start by arguing that pooling was the accounting method of choice for highly-valued acquirers, and that failing to control for this regulatory incentive (and the eventual disappearance of that incentive) leads to invalid inference. We finally confirm these arguments with new empirical results: (i) the relation between acquirer valuation and the choice of mode of payment disappears in analysis of U.S. mergers with fresh data that post-date 2001; (ii) this relation also fails in examination of data from Europe and Australia, environments where pooling was either not allowed or almost never used; (iii) this relation is absent even in analyses of pre-2001 subsamples of U.S. mergers that did not use pooling. We conclude that the abolishment of pooling played the role of an endogenous omitted variable, leading to the erroneous interpretation of empirical evidence.

Keywords: Mergers and acquisitions; Mode of payment; Pooling of interest; Valuation

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

de Bodt, Eric and Cousin, Jean-Gabriel and Officer, Micah S., Acquirer Overvaluation and Stock Payment in M&A Transactions: What Explains the Spurious Correlation? (May 14, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3392956 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3392956
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
292
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,725
RANK
238,367
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies