Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Self-Regulation in International Corporate Governance Codes

Veldman, J. (2017) 'Self-regulation in International Corporate Governance Codes', in Du Plessis, J. and Low, C.K. (eds.) Corporate Governance Codes for the 21st Century. Cham: Springer, pp. 77-95.

20 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2019

Jeroen Veldman

Nyenrode Business university

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

In this chapter I explore the UK Code of Governance as a model for the spread of notions of self-regulation into Codes of corporate governance worldwide. I then briefly discuss some limitations and problems of the UK Code, arguing that it implicitly operates on the basis of suasion; that its assumptions have not been re-shaped on the basis of empirical refutation; that it embeds a specific type of political economy; and that it conceptualises corporations as integrated and ultimately controllable entities, thereby ignoring the status of TNCs operating in a transnational domain.

Keywords: corporate governance; corporate governance code; corporate groups; transnational corporations

Suggested Citation:

Veldman, Jeroen, Self-Regulation in International Corporate Governance Codes (2017). Veldman, J. (2017) 'Self-regulation in International Corporate Governance Codes', in Du Plessis, J. and Low, C.K. (eds.) Corporate Governance Codes for the 21st Century. Cham: Springer, pp. 77-95., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3392942
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
978
RANK
601,090
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies