Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Text Analytics Approach to Examining Corporate Social Responsibility

Asian Journal of Accounting and Governance, Vol. 11:85-96

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2020-116

20 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2019

Nurul Asyikeen Azhar

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Gary Pan

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Poh-Sun Seow

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Andrew Koh

Singapore Management University - School of Information Systems

Wan-Ying Tay

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 1, 2019

Abstract

This research article explores a text analytics approach to assess the prominence of corporate social responsibility in 554 Singapore-listed firms through a content analysis of the news. Instead of relying on publications by the firms, third-party news coverage is used to reduce potential biases due to over-reporting. A dataset of news articles on the included firms published during fiscal years 2015 and 2016 is crawled, and the articles’ content is parsed to search for information related to corporate social responsibility. Graph theory is subsequently used to create a collaborative network of listed firms’ corporate social responsibility activities. The results highlight a more automated and scalable means of assessing the prominence of corporate social responsibility, as well as potential “influencers” within the corporate landscape.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility; news; content analysis; collaborative network; Singapore Exchange

Suggested Citation:

Azhar, Nurul Asyikeen and Pan, Gary and Seow, Poh-Sun and Koh, Andrew and Tay, Wan-Ying, Text Analytics Approach to Examining Corporate Social Responsibility (April 1, 2019). Asian Journal of Accounting and Governance, Vol. 11:85-96, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2020-116, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3392876
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
W F Abbott , R J Monsen
On the Measurement of Corporate Social Responsibility: Self-Report Disclosure as a Method of Measuring Social Involvement
Academy of Management Journal , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 501 - 515 Posted: 1979
Crossref
R Albert , A.-L Barabási
Statistical Mechanics of Complex Networks. Reviews of Modern Physics , volume 74 , p. 47 - 97 Posted: 2002
Crossref
B V Almende , B Thieurmel , T Robert
visNetwork: Network Visualisation using 'vis.js' library Posted: 2013
D Aly , J Simon , K Hussainey
Determinants of Corporate Internet Reporting: Evidence from Egypt
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 82 - 202 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
410
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,957
RANK
163,874
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies