Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Implicit to Explicit: The Impact of Disclosure Requirements on Hidden Transaction Costs

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2019 Last revised: 27 Nov 2024

Christine Cuny

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Omri Even-Tov

Haas School of Business - UC Berkeley

Edward M. Watts

Yale School of Management; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 7, 2020

Abstract

This paper provides evidence that disclosing corporate bond investors' transaction costs (markups) affects the size of the markups. Until recently, markups were embedded in the reported transaction price and not explicitly disclosed. Without explicit disclosure, investors can estimate their markups using executed transaction prices. However, estimating markups imposes information processing costs on investors, potentially creating information asymmetry between unsophisticated investors and bond-market professionals. We explore changes in markups after bond-market professionals were required to explicitly disclose the markup on certain retail trade confirmations. We find that markups decline for trades that are subject to the disclosure requirement relative to those that are not. The findings are pronounced when constraints on investors' information processing capacity limit their ability to be informed about their markups without explicit disclosure.

Keywords: Corporate bonds; Retail transaction costs; Information processing costs; Information asymmetry; Disclosure regulation; Financial advisers

JEL Classification: G24, G28, D82, D83

Suggested Citation:

Cuny, Christine and Even-Tov, Omri and Watts, Edward, From Implicit to Explicit: The Impact of Disclosure Requirements on Hidden Transaction Costs (October 7, 2020). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3393747 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3393747
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
R Schestag , P Schuster , M Uhrig-Homburg
Measuring Liquidity in Bond Markets
Review of Financial Studies , volume 29 , p. 1170 - 1219 Posted: 2016
M Schwert
Municipal Bond Liquidity and Default Risk
Journal of Finance , volume 72 , p. 1683 - 1722 Posted: 2017
SEC, 2012. Study Regarding Financial Literacy Among Investors
M Serfling
Firing Costs and Capital Structure Decisions
The Journal of Finance , volume 5 , p. 249 - 290 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
495
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,121
RANK
131,230
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies