Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stop the Presses! Or Wait, We Might Need Them: Firm Responses to Local Newspaper Closures and Layoffs

Journal of Corporate Finance, 2021 (vol. 69, article no. 102035)

54 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2019 Last revised: 9 Dec 2021

Min Kim

Sogang University

Derrald Stice

The University of Hong Kong - School of Business; HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Han Stice

George Mason University

Roger M. White

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 28, 2021

Abstract

Media as a whole has been shown to play an important role as an information source, information intermediary, and monitor of public firms, but much less is known about whether local newspapers play a similar role. We attempt to shed light on this issue, and we investigate if and how firms respond to changes in the local newspaper industry, where closures and layoffs have become the norm. Compared to a sample of matched control firms, we find that following newspaper closures and large industry layoffs, nearby public companies boost dividend payouts. This result follows from prior research suggesting that investors pressure managers to increase dividends in response to growing agency problems. Cross-sectional analyses confirm that our results are driven by geographically-concentrated firms that rely more heavily on local newspapers as a monitor and information source. Our findings suggest that local newspapers play an important role as an information intermediary and monitor of public firms, and that the disappearance of local newspapers exacerbates agency problems in nearby firms that tend to be remedied by higher dividends.

Keywords: Newspapers, Local Media, Disclosure, Monitoring, Agency Problems, Dividend Policy

JEL Classification: M41, L82, G35

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Min and Stice, Derrald and Stice, Han and White, Roger M., Stop the Presses! Or Wait, We Might Need Them: Firm Responses to Local Newspaper Closures and Layoffs (June 28, 2021). Journal of Corporate Finance, 2021 (vol. 69, article no. 102035), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3393199 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3393199
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
J Aharony , I Swary
Quarterly dividend and earnings announcements and stockholders' return: An empirical analysis
The Journal of Finance , volume 35 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 1980
M Ahn , M Drake , H Kyung , H Stice
The role of the business press in the pricing of analysts' recommendation revisions
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 341 - 392 Posted: 2019
K L Alli , A Q Khan , G G Ramirez
Determinants of Corporate Dividend Policy: A Factorial Analysis
Financial Review , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 523 - 547 Posted: 1993
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
431
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,473
RANK
155,551
2 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies