Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Quality and Firm’s Market Risk: An Empirical Study in Indian Context

Journal of Commerce & Accounting Research, Vol. 8, Issue 2, 2019, pp. 9-19

Posted: 12 Jun 2019

Chhavi Jatana

Panjab University - University Business School

Date Written: May 27, 2019

Abstract

Financial statements are one of the most important sources of information which aid stakeholders in taking various economic decisions. Accounting measures like earnings present in these statements assist in decision-making. However, this requires high quality of earnings. It has an impact on the firm’s market risk which further influences investment decision of the investors as well as the cost of raising funds by the firms. The present study addresses this issue and attempts to investigate the impact of earnings quality (EAQ) on market risk (SMR) of companies listed on the S&P BSE 100 Index for the period 2013-14 to 2017-18. A panel data analysis revealed that EAQ has a significant negative impact on firm excess returns (RRf). However, EAQ is not significantly related to firm’s SMR and hence EAQ doesn’t interact with market excess returns (MTRf) for affecting the RRf. Among control variables, only firm size is found to have a significant and negative impact on RRf as well as SMR. This study contributes to the literature by exploring the EAQ-SMR relationship in Indian context since the empirical evidence on other economies cannot be applied to India.

Keywords: CAPM, Discretionary Accruals, Earnings Quality, Market Risk, India

JEL Classification: G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jatana, Chhavi, Earnings Quality and Firm’s Market Risk: An Empirical Study in Indian Context (May 27, 2019). Journal of Commerce & Accounting Research, Vol. 8, Issue 2, 2019, pp. 9-19, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3394893
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
686
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies