Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Accounting Standards on the Hedging Behaviour in Europe and the USA (Einfluss der Rechnungslegungsstandards auf das Hedging-Verhalten in Europa und den USA)

Corporate Finance, No. 05-06, 27.05.2019

Posted: 11 Jun 2019

Carolin Eigenthaler

University of Hohenheim

Andreas Hecht

Zurich University of Applied Sciences (ZHAW); University of Hohenheim

Dirk Hachmeister

University of Hohenheim

Date Written: May 27, 2019

Abstract

English Abstract: The internationalization of entrepreneurial activity and the dynamics of global markets continue to increase the complexity of firms' businesses and thus the importance of risk management. In order to hedge against financial risks, it is particularly important for companies to enter into hedging relationships. This is done within the framework of the bookkeeping practice of hedge accounting, whereby the different accounting standards are of particular importance. Do Europeans hedge their risk differently from Americans and what role do the respective accounting rules play? This paper examines the impact of accounting standards on the hedging behavior of non-financial firms in Europe and the US, based on existing empirical research on the application of hedge accounting in business practice.

German Abstract: Die Internationalisierung unternehmerischer Tätigkeit und die Dynamik globaler Märkte lassen die Komplexität der Geschäfte von Unternehmen und damit die Bedeutung des Risikomanagements weiter wachsen.Um sich gegen finanzielle Risiken abzusichern, ist bei Unternehmen vor allem das Eingehen von Sicherungsbeziehungen zu beobachten. Für diese gelten im Allgemeinen besondere Vorschriften zum Hedge Accounting , wodurch unterschiedlichen Rechnungslegungsstandards eine besondere Bedeutung zukommt. Hedgen Europäer ihr Risiko auf andere Art und Weise als Amerikaner und welche Rolle spielen dabei die jeweiligen Bilanzierungsvorschriften? Der Beitrag untersucht den Einfluss der Rechnungslegungsstandards auf das Hedging-Verhalten von Nichtbanken in Europa und den USA auf Grundlage bislang durchgeführter empirischer Studien zur Untersuchung der Anwendung des Hedge-Accounting in der Unternehmenspraxis.




Keywords: Hedging, Risikomanagement, Rechnungslegungsstandards, Risk Management, Accounting Standards, Impact, IFRS, IAS 39, US-GAAP, SFAS 133

JEL Classification: G18, G30, G32, M48

Suggested Citation:

Eigenthaler, Carolin and Hecht, Andreas and Hachmeister, Dirk, The Impact of Accounting Standards on the Hedging Behaviour in Europe and the USA (Einfluss der Rechnungslegungsstandards auf das Hedging-Verhalten in Europa und den USA) (May 27, 2019). Corporate Finance, No. 05-06, 27.05.2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3394224
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,046
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies