Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of the Big 4 to Big 3 Audit Market Transition on Initial Year Audit Fee Pricing in Japan

28 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2019

Frendy

Nagoya University of Commerce and Business

Date Written: May 28, 2019

Abstract

Purpose – Japanese audit market experienced a significant shift from the Big 4 dominated the audit market to the Big 3 market due to the demise of PwC ChuoAoyama in 2006 that raised concern on compromised auditor’s independence. This study aims to investigate whether Japanese auditors engage in audit fee low-balling and whether the transition event from the Big 4 to the Big 3 period influences the audit pricing in the initial year of an audit engagement.

Design/methodology/approach – A sample of Japanese firms listed in the First Section of Tokyo Stock Exchange during the transition from Big 4 period (2005) to Big 3 period (2006-2007) is employed in the panel fixed effects multiple regression model with audit fee as the dependent variable.

Findings – Two main findings of this study are as follow. First, there is no difference in the fee paid in the initial year of audit engagement compared to continuing audit. Second, the transition to the Big 3 period contributes to higher audit fee paid in the initial year of audit compared to the prior Big 4 period. Further analysis shows that this higher initial year audit fee pricing is driven by companies that change from large firms to smaller size auditors.

Several sensitivity tests that control for auditor’s endogeneity support these conclusions. Research limitations/implications – These findings suggest that the transition to the Big 3 period increased the bargaining power of smaller size Japanese auditors in the pricing of the initial year audit in the short term. The generalizability of this paper’s findings is constrained to economies that also share the common characteristics of a developed capital market with robust investor protection, and law enforcement institutions.

Originality/value – Compared to prior initial year audit fee studies, this study investigates changes in the initial year audit pricing behavior in response to the unique empirical setting of the Japanese audit market transition from Big 4 to Big 3. Furthermore, the disclosure of audit fee information for the Japanese listed companies allow this research to measure audit fee low-balling. Unlike prior literature, this study employs the number of audit personnel data that are disclosed by the Japanese publicly listed firms to better explain audit fee variance.

Keywords: Big 4, Big 3, audit market, transition, low-balling, initial year, audit pricing

Suggested Citation:

, Frendy, The Effect of the Big 4 to Big 3 Audit Market Transition on Initial Year Audit Fee Pricing in Japan (May 28, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3395569
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,578
RANK
713,531
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies