Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluation of Factors Determining Audit Fee of Quoted Nigerian Deposit Money Banks

Uniport Journal of Accounting and Business, vol. 6 No. 1, March 2018, ISSN 979-52334, p106-122. A publication of the Department of Accounting, University of Porthacourt, Nigeria,

16 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2019

Muideen Adeseye Awodiran

Afe Babalola University

Ramat Titilayo Salman

University of Ilorin

Jimba Isiaka Kareem

Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

With auditors mostly found wanting in corporate scandals, there is growing emphasis on the need for auditors of companies in highly regulated sectors like banks to consider factors that are important to regulators. This study evaluates the determinants of audit fee based on variables that are peculiar to banking industry and considered salient to regulators of banking services. It also examines the effect of IFRS adoption on audit fee of banks. Data were sourced from annual reports and accounts of all the fifteen (15) quoted deposit money banks for the period covering 2006-2015 and were analysed using descriptive statistics and inferential statistics. The result of Hausman specification test favours random-effect over the fixed-effect models of panel least square regression. Findings of the study revealed that capital risk has negative influence on audit fees at 10% level of significance while credit risk shows positive influence at 1% level of significance. Also, complexity, IFRS adoption and size had significant positive relationship with audit fees at 1%, 10% and 5% levels of significance respectively. However, management efficiency and profitability showed no significant relationship with audit fees. As regards variables considered important to regulators of banks, the study concludes that auditors do not seem to consider management efficiency in determination of audit fees. The study recommended amongst others that auditors of banks should further align the determination of their fees with factors that are considered important to regulatory body; to reduce costly litigation associated with audit failure.

Keywords: Auditors, Audit Fee Pricing, Audit Quality, Deposit Money Banks

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Awodiran, Muideen Adeseye and Titilayo Salman, Ramat and Jimba, Kareem Isiaka, Evaluation of Factors Determining Audit Fee of Quoted Nigerian Deposit Money Banks (2017). Uniport Journal of Accounting and Business, vol. 6 No. 1, March 2018, ISSN 979-52334, p106-122. A publication of the Department of Accounting, University of Porthacourt, Nigeria, , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3395778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
S Abidin , V Beattie , A Goodacre
Audit Market Structure, Fees and Choice following the Andersen Break-Up: Evidence from the UK
British Accounting Review , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 187 - 206 Posted: 2008
A A Adeniyi
Auditing and Assurance Services
Lagos: Values Analysis Consult Posted: 2010
O Aguolu
Fundamentals of Auditing Posted: 2002
A R Ahmed , H A Abdullah
A Proposed Framework of Audit Fees
Management , volume 8 , issue 12 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
869
RANK
702,914
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies