Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Partially Privatized SOEs Outperform Fully Private Firms? Evidence from Indonesia

Rakhman, Fuad. 2018. Can partially privatized SOEs outperform fully private firms? Evidence from Indonesia. Research in International Business and Finance, Vol. 45, pp. 285-292. DOI:10.1016/j.ribaf.2017.07.160

Posted: 13 Jun 2019 Last revised: 15 Jun 2019

Fuad Rakhman

Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM) - Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB)

Date Written: April 6, 2016

Abstract

Privatization has been widely accepted as an effective avenue to improve the performance of State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) and reduce the performance gap between SOEs and private firms. Since the 1990s, many SOEs in Indonesia have been partially privatized to optimize their potential. This study investigates if, following their privatization, performance gaps still exist between the partially privatized SOEs and private firms listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange. Contrary to the common findings that governmental ownerships are associated with lower firm performance, this study finds that the financial performance of partially privatized SOEs was at least as good as that of private firms for the 13 consecutive years in the sample. In some years, the financial performance of the partially privatized SOEs was significantly higher than those of the private firms. A further analysis reveals that the higher financial performance of the privatized SOEs was not associated with opportunistic earnings management.

Keywords: State-owned enterprises; Partial privatization; Financial performance; Earnings management

Suggested Citation:

Rakhman, Fuad, Can Partially Privatized SOEs Outperform Fully Private Firms? Evidence from Indonesia (April 6, 2016). Rakhman, Fuad. 2018. Can partially privatized SOEs outperform fully private firms? Evidence from Indonesia. Research in International Business and Finance, Vol. 45, pp. 285-292. DOI:10.1016/j.ribaf.2017.07.160, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3396360
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
635
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies