Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Restoring Trust in the ‘Fairness’ of Corporate Taxation: Increased Transparency and the Need for Institutional Reform

From S. Goslinga, et al (Eds.) Tax and Trust Institutions, Interactions and Instruments The Hague: Eleven International Publishing 2018. Reproduced here with the kind permission of the publishers.

21 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2019

Judith Freedman

University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation

Date Written: November 30, 2018

Abstract

This paper examines the relationship between trust and transparency in the context of corporate taxation. Transparency will not always increase trust and might even undermine it. Sometimes this loss of trust will be deserved and might help to bring about change that is needed, but at other times transparency can lead to misunderstanding and inability to absorb or utilize the information that is being made available, with a consequential unjustified and unfortunate loss of trust. In such cases, increased transparency can actually lower tax morale and the willingness of taxpayers to pay their taxes voluntarily, with little or no corresponding benefit. The pressure for increased transparency to the public in the tax world arises largely from lack of trust not only in large multinational companies (MNCs) but also in governments, institutions generally and tax authorities in particular. This widespread lack of trust in our tax system needs to be addressed through improved institutions and fundamental reform. Ultimately it is essential for trust to be restored in governments and tax authorities to design, impose and administer taxes on businesses in a way that the public perceive to be procedurally and administratively fair, whatever system is ultimately chosen for this purpose. It is institutional reform rather than increasingly detailed information in the public domain that is needed to achieve this. This is not anti- democratic – there should be debate and input – but democracies also need well- functioning, trustworthy and trusted institutions to serve them.

Keywords: Tax, trust, transparency, institutions

Suggested Citation:

Freedman, Judith, Restoring Trust in the ‘Fairness’ of Corporate Taxation: Increased Transparency and the Need for Institutional Reform (November 30, 2018). From S. Goslinga, et al (Eds.) Tax and Trust Institutions, Interactions and Instruments The Hague: Eleven International Publishing 2018. Reproduced here with the kind permission of the publishers. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3396775 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3396775
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
R Avi-Yonah , H Xu
What's wrong with shaming corporate tax abuse? Tax Law Review
Erasmus Law Review , volume 10 , p. 541 - 592 Posted: 2009
K Bronzewska
Cooperative Compliance. IBFD Doctoral Series 38. Amsterdam: International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation Posted: 2016
M Daunton
Trusting Leviathan. The Politics of Taxation in Britain , p. 1799 - 1914 Posted: 2001
M Devereux , J Vella
Are we heading towards a corporate tax system fit for the 21st century? Fiscal Studies , volume 35 , p. 449 - 475 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
560
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,564
RANK
112,757
3 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies