Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Creation of One Truth: Single-Ledger Entries for Multiple Stakeholders Using Blockchain Technology to Address the Reconciliation Problem

18 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2019

Ahmed Gomaa

The University of Scranton

Mohamed Gomaa

California State Polytechnic University, Pomona

Magdy Farag

California State Polytechnic University, Pomona - College of Business Administration

Date Written: June 1, 2019

Abstract

Blockchain technology has evolved beyond its original uses as a methodology to record cryptocurrency transactions to support various business applications. Over the past few years, it has gained increased attention in the accounting profession. The current paper proposes a new conceptual framework to implement and apply blockchain technology in the accounting profession that is based on a single-ledger model. The paper addresses the reconciliation problem if more than one party is involved in a transaction. It defines the requirements to have an accounting system without reconciliation challenges. Following the paper approach, transaction details are recorded on the blockchain ledger before inserting the transaction details in the transacting parties’ ERP systems. This ledger is a single point of truth that can be viewed directly without the need for creating information silos in the ERP systems of transacting parties, hence addressing the reconciliation challenge. The presented framework creates one truth for all parties involved in a transaction eliminating much of the redundancy involved in current accounting systems.

Keywords: Blockchain, ERP, smart contract, AIS framework, RAE, Ontology

Suggested Citation:

Gomaa, Ahmed and Gomaa, Mohamed and Farag, Magdy, The Creation of One Truth: Single-Ledger Entries for Multiple Stakeholders Using Blockchain Technology to Address the Reconciliation Problem (June 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3397684 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3397684
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
2017. Blockchain Technology and Its Potential Impact on the Audit and Assurance Profession
B Apostolou , J Dorminey , J Hassell , J Rebele
Accounting education literature review (2015)
Journal of Accounting Education , volume 35 , p. 20 - 55 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J Coyne , P Mcmickle
Can Blockchains serve an accounting purpose
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 101 - 111 Posted: 2017
Crossref
J Dai , M Vasarhelyi
Toward blockchain-based accounting and assurance
Journal of Information Systems , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 5 - 21 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Vyomkesh Bhatt , Ram Singh , Vikas Tripathi
Impact of Digitalization on Reporting, Tax Avoidance, Accounting, and Green Finance
, p. 36 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,522
RANK
306,185
1 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies