Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association among Corporate Governance, Corruption, and Economic Prosperity in the Socialist Republic of Vietnam

Accounting, Economics, and Law: A Convivium, Forthcoming

62 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2019

Marius Gros

Niederrhein University of Applied Sciences; Goethe University Frankfurt - Department of Accounting and Auditing

Tobias Henke

Vietnamese-German University

Date Written: May 31, 2019

Abstract

The OECD considers compliance with the OECD principles of corporate governance and reduced corruption to be positively associated with economic prosperity. Prior empirical research supports this notion for developed countries. However, findings for developing and emerging countries are more diverse, as some studies document an “East Asia paradox” and link higher levels of corruption with positive outcomes at the firm or country level. Our case study on the Socialist Republic of Vietnam contributes to the literature by identifying determinants of these mixed findings. Relying on triangulation, our results suggest that internationalizing and international firms must adhere to OECD expectations to prosper, while domestic firms prefer operating in corrupt but stable conditions. Due to this mechanism, noncompliance with OECD principles and corruption can deter foreign direct investments and thus negatively influence economic growth. Nevertheless, noncompliance with OECD principles and corruption can still work to benefit domestic firms. Given our results for Vietnam, we argue that the internationalization of the business models of the firms analyzed might explain the prior inconclusive empirical findings.

Keywords: OECD principles of corporate governance; corruption; Vietnam; economic prosperity; case study

JEL Classification: F63; M48; N45; O53

Suggested Citation:

Gros, Marius F. and Henke, Tobias, The Association among Corporate Governance, Corruption, and Economic Prosperity in the Socialist Republic of Vietnam (May 31, 2019). Accounting, Economics, and Law: A Convivium, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3398236
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
C Ahlin , J Pang
Are financial development and corruption control substitutes in promoting growth?
Journal of Development Economics , volume 86 , issue 2 , p. 414 - 433 Posted: 2008
Crossref
T Aidt , J Dutta , V Sena
Governance regimes, corruption and growth: Theory and evidence
Journal of Comparative Economics , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 195 - 220 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M Andrews
Good government means different things in different countries
Governance , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 35 Posted: 2010
Crossref
P Asselin
Choosing peace: Hanoi and the Geneva Agreement on Vietnam
Journal of Cold War Studies , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 95 - 126 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,043
RANK
753,521
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Institutions & Transition Economics: Political Economy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies