Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Institutional Investors and Information Asymmetry: Evidence from Corporate Taxes

NYU Stern School of Business

57 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2019 Last revised: 26 May 2023

April Klein

New York University (NYU); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Simone Traini

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Georgios Voulgaris

The University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Date Written: May 26, 2023

Abstract

We use firms’ tax policies as a setting to identify a mechanism through which foreign institutional investors decrease their informational disadvantage compared to domestic investors. Using a comprehensive sample of international publicly listed firms, and theoretically motivated by the equity home bias puzzle, we find that foreign investors decrease information asymmetry by influencing their portfolio firms to adjust their effective tax rates, upwards or downwards, consistent with the average tax position of their country and industry peers. We also find that this effect of foreign investors is less pronounced in corporate environments with lower information asymmetries, where the advantages to constraining management’s tax planning strategies are fewer. We address endogeneity concerns by exploiting multiple sources of exogenous variation in foreign institutional ownership. Our results provide a partial solution to the equity home bias puzzle and highlight the importance of transparency for firms’ tax policies.

Keywords: Corporate tax planning; Foreign institutional ownership; Equity home bias; Shareholder monitoring

JEL Classification: M41, H26, G11, G34

Suggested Citation:

Klein, April and Traini, Simone and Voulgaris, Georgios, Foreign Institutional Investors and Information Asymmetry: Evidence from Corporate Taxes (May 26, 2023). NYU Stern School of Business, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3400881 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3400881
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
we drop firm-year observations with extreme (0 or 1) ETRs or Cash ETRs before computing peer groups, and our results remain unchanged. In Panel B, we use alternative proxies for corporate tax policies. First, we split the tax rate distribution into terciles instead of quintiles and find that the probability of being in the central (i.e., second) tercile increases with foreign institutional ownership Posted: 2018
Columns
) and (4) present the results for this adjustment in our sample of profitable firms, while Columns (5) and (6) show the results for a sample that also includes non-profitable and loss firms. Evidence from these tests is still consistent with our main analysis
Tsang
To construct our variables on voluntary disclosure, we collect data on management forecasts from the Standard and Poor's Key Development (KD) dataset, part of the Compustat-Capital IQ (CIQ) database. KD provides information on the date as well the text of the management forecast under the "Corporate Guidance" event type. Columns (1) and (2) present our findings after constructing a dummy variable controlling for the issuance of at least one management forecast at a firm-year level
Columns (3) and (4), we follow Balakrishnan et al. (2019) and construct an indicator variable on whether management issues a forecast, including words related to tax-related issues Posted: 2019
We also find similar results when we use absolute values for ETR (Cash ETR) Diff as a dependent variable
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
384
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,615
RANK
176,588
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies