Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Disclosure Tone and Bank Risk-taking: Evidence from Europe

Posted: 17 Jun 2019 Last revised: 29 Dec 2019

Belinda Laura Del Gaudio

University Parthenope of Naples

Amith Megaravalli

MYRA School of Business

Gabriele Sampagnaro

University of Naples Parthenope

Vincenzo Verdoliva

University of Naples "Parthenope"

Date Written: June 7, 2019

Abstract

We examine the relationship between the tone of mandatory disclosures and bank risk insolvency to determine what this qualitative information may reveal about bank stability. By using text analysis and the context-specific text dictionaries of Loughran and McDonald, we find that qualitative information collected in a negative tone helps explain bank risk insolvency. This finding suggests that qualitative information through the mandatory disclosure tone could be used to detect the communication among banks, the market and supervisors.

Keywords: Text analysis, Bank stability, Tone management

JEL Classification: G21, G24, G33

Suggested Citation:

Del Gaudio, Belinda Laura and Megaravalli, Amith and Sampagnaro, Gabriele and Verdoliva, Vincenzo, Mandatory Disclosure Tone and Bank Risk-taking: Evidence from Europe (June 7, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3400876
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
725
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies