Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Financial Reporting and Auditing in Disciplining CEOs: Evidence from Goodwill Impairments

Baruch College Zicklin School of Business Research Paper No. 2019-06-03

59 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2019 Last revised: 26 Jun 2019

Al (Aloke) Ghosh

UNC Charlotte

Armen Hovakimian

Baruch College - Zicklin School of Business

Huajing Hu

Adelphi University

Date Written: June 9, 2019

Abstract

According to accounting and auditing standards, external auditors and management must both independently monitor goodwill balance for any impairment. Therefore, goodwill impairment may contain valuable incremental information about the CEO’s ability which the board can utilize for CEO retention decisions. Consistent with this expectation, we find goodwill impairments lead to a large jump in subsequent CEO turnover. The turnover-impairment relationship varies with CEO power, auditor quality, accounting performance, and CEO-age and the information in goodwill impairment is incremental to the announcement period stock returns. Our analyses suggest that boards utilize the negative information in goodwill impairment in one of two ways. In the more severe cases, the incumbent CEO is dismissed; in other cases, their equity compensation is reduced which suggests that retention and pay act as alternative disciplining mechanisms. Our study highlights how the intersection of financial reporting and auditing can generate valuable information in disciplining CEOs.

Keywords: ceo turnover, acquisitions, goodwill impairment

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Ghosh, Al (Aloke) and Hovakimian, Armen and Hu, Huajing, Role of Financial Reporting and Auditing in Disciplining CEOs: Evidence from Goodwill Impairments (June 9, 2019). Baruch College Zicklin School of Business Research Paper No. 2019-06-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3401538 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3401538
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Ellen Engel , Rachel M Hayes , Xue Wang
CEO turnover and properties of accounting information
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 197 - 226 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Eugene F Fama , James D Macbeth
Risk, return, and equilibrium: Empirical tests
Journal of Political Economy , volume 81 , p. 607 - 636 Posted: 1973
Crossref
Eugene F Fama , Kenneth R French
Forecasting profitability and earnings
Journal of Business , volume 73 , p. 161 - 175 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Kathleen A Farrell , David A Whidbee
Impact of firm performance expectations on CEO turnover and replacement decisions
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 165 - 196 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,578
RANK
386,825
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies