Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Litigation Risk and Readability of Corporate Financial Disclosures: Evidence from Natural Experiments

67 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2019 Last revised: 30 Nov 2021

Abhishek Ganguly

University of Oklahoma

Arup Ganguly

University of Mississippi

Lin Ge

University of Mississippi

Chad J. Zutter

University of Pittsburgh

Date Written: January 15, 2021

Abstract

We use a natural experiment to weigh conflicting theories on the impact of shareholder litigation risk on the readability of corporate financial disclosures. In response to a Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruling that unexpectedly reduced litigation risk, we find that firms in the Ninth Circuit significantly improved the readability of their financial disclosures relative to control firms. This supports the idea that litigation risk discourages firms from providing financial disclosures with greater readability. Our finding is robust to different linguistic complexity measures and matching techniques, fixed effects for both time-invariant and time-varying unobservable confounders, and an alternative natural experiment.

Keywords: Shareholder litigation risk, Corporate financial disclosure, Textual analysis, Endogeneity

JEL Classification: G32, G38, K22, K40

Suggested Citation:

Ganguly, Abhishek and Ganguly, Arup and Ge, Lin and Zutter, Chad J., Shareholder Litigation Risk and Readability of Corporate Financial Disclosures: Evidence from Natural Experiments (January 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3401891 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3401891
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities. The Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
V Atanasov , B Black
Shock-based causal inference in corporate finance and accounting research
Critical Finance Review , volume 5 , p. 207 - 304 Posted: 2016
S Banerjee , M Humphery-Jenner , V K Nanda , T M Tham
Executive overconfidence and securities class actions
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 53 , issue 6 , p. 2685 - 2719 Posted: 2018
L L Bargeron , K M Lehn , C J Zutter
Sarbanes-Oxley and corporate risk-taking
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 34 - 52 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
504
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,675
RANK
128,733
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies