Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Non-Big 4 Mergers on Audit Efficiency and Audit Market Competition

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2019 Last revised: 20 Jul 2023

Andrew Kitto

University of Massachusetts Amherst

Date Written: June 16, 2023

Abstract

This study examines whether recent mergers between small and midsize accounting firms influence competition by increasing the number of firms that can compete with larger rivals in the U.S. public company audit market. I find that in-market mergers generate efficiencies that are reflected in a post-merger reduction in audit hours but not in reduced audit quality. For both in-market and out-of-market mergers, clients switching to post-merger firms are more likely to be accelerated filers and are significantly larger in terms of several proxies for size and complexity. Lastly, I find that an increase in market-level merger activity is associated with lower profitability of Big 4 firms operating in the same market but only in the smaller client segment. These findings suggest that recent mergers have actually increased competition in some segments of the audit market despite already high concentration and concerns about a lack of sufficient competition.

Keywords: auditing, audit fees, competition, efficiency, mergers, PCAOB

JEL Classification: M41, M42, D40, G35

Suggested Citation:

Kitto, Andrew, The Effects of Non-Big 4 Mergers on Audit Efficiency and Audit Market Competition (June 16, 2023). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3401509 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3401509
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Accounting Today
The State of the M&A Market Posted: 2016
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D E Buschena , J M Perloff
The creation of dominant firm market power in the coconut oil export market
American Journal of Agricultural Economics , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 1000 - 1008 Posted: 1991
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do non-audit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
859
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,999
RANK
64,628
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies