Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Financial Sector Reforms on Economic Growth in Nigeria

12 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2019

Uju Akpunonu

Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University

Egungwu I

Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University - Department of Banking and Finance

EthelMary O

Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University

Nkechi Emeka-Nwokeji

Independent

Date Written: March 11, 2019

Abstract

The study examines the effect of financial (banking) sector reforms on economic growth in Nigeria from 1986-2013. Specifically, the study evaluates the extent to which bank capitalization (CAP) and interest rate (INTD) have affected economic growth in Nigeria. Secondary data were generated from various issues of Central Bank of Nigeria Statistical Bulletin, and the World Development Indicators of the World Bank. Ordinary Least Square (OLS) regression was adopted to test the two hypotheses formulated for the study. The study revealed that bank capitalization (CAP) has significantly affected economic growth in Nigeria and interest rate (INTD) has also affected economic growth significantly, though at long run. The study recommends that the CBN should build and maintain a well-articulated and properly implemented banking reforms such that will stimulate savings through high real deposit rate and lending rate which will result in financial deepening and thus, economic growth.

Keywords: Banking Sector Reforms, Bank Capitalization, Interest Rate Deregulation, Economic Growth

Suggested Citation:

Akpunonu, Uju and Egungwu, Ikenna and Dim, EthelMary O and Emeka-Nwokeji, Nkechi, Effect of Financial Sector Reforms on Economic Growth in Nigeria (March 11, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3402435 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3402435
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
A Abdulsalam , M G Ibrahim
Impact of banking sector development and economic growth: another look at the evidence from Nigeria
Journal of Business Management & Social Sciences Research Posted: 2013
S S Akpan
The impact of financial sector reforms on economic growth and development in Nigeria
Journal of Business and Organizational Development , volume 4 Posted: 2012
U E Akpunonu , I Egungwu , U S Muogbo
Financial reforms and banking sector efficiency
Journal of Banking and Financial Studies , volume 1 , issue 1 Posted: 2015
C A Anyanwu
An overview of current banking sector reforms and the real sector of the nigerian economy Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
640
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,275
RANK
94,985
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Economic Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies