Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure and Competition for Capital

Management Science, forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2019 Last revised: 1 Jun 2022

Stephanie F. Cheng

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Christine Cuny

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Hao Xue

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Date Written: January 1, 2022

Abstract

Ownership segmentation in the municipal bond market gives rise to competition among local issuers for a limited supply of capital. We consider the disclosure implications of this competition for capital, using Moody's 2010 recalibration of the municipal rating scale. The recalibration placed lowly upgraded issuers at a disadvantage relative to their highly upgraded peers within the same market segment. We develop a model in which two municipal bond issuers compete for investors' capital by choosing bond yields. The model predicts the issuer that is disadvantaged by the recalibration is more likely to improve its disclosure to better compete with its advantaged peer if i) the rating upgrade that its peer receives is higher, and ii) competition for capital is fiercer. Empirically, we find that the disadvantaged issuers provide more, and timelier financial disclosures after the recalibration. This improvement in disclosure quality increases in the extent of the issuer's disadvantage, arises only if we consider peers with whom the issuer directly competes for capital, and is pronounced when the local capital supply is constrained. Our analytical and empirical analyses support the idea that a competitive disadvantage in raising capital in segmented markets can motivate issuers to improve disclosure quality.

Keywords: Disclosure Quality; Market Segmentation; Competition for Capital; Credit Ratings

JEL Classification: D80; G24; H74

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Stephanie F. and Cuny, Christine and Xue, Hao, Disclosure and Competition for Capital (January 1, 2022). Management Science, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3402345 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3402345
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
M Adelino , I Cunha , M A Ferreira
The economic effects of public financing: Evidence from municipal bond ratings recalibration. Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , p. 3223 - 3268 Posted: 2017
F Allen , D Gale
Comparing Financial Systems Posted: 2000
W R Baber , A K Gore , K T Rich , J X Zhang
Accounting restatements, governance and municipal debt financing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 212 - 227 Posted: 2013
T Babina , C Jotikasthira , C T Lundblad , T Ramadorai
Heterogeneous Taxes and Limited Risk Sharing: Evidence from Municipal Bonds
Review of Financial Studies , volume 34 , p. 509 - 568 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
460
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,109
RANK
143,403
7 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies