Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Changes in Analysts’ Stock Recommendations Following Regulatory Action Against Their Brokerage

Mays Business School Research Paper No. 3402180

54 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2019

Andrew C. Call

Marshall School of Business - University of Southern California

Nathan Y. Sharp

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Paul A. Wong

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 1, 2019

Abstract

Despite the importance of sell-side analysts in the capital markets, we know little about the effectiveness of routine monitoring of the sell-side industry. We examine the attributes of sell-side research issued by analysts before and after their brokerage is subject to regulatory sanctions. We find that after a regulatory action, analysts at sanctioned brokerages lower their stock recommendations, both in absolute terms and relative to the recommendations of other analysts following the same firms. Following a regulatory action, analysts at sanctioned brokerages are also more likely than analysts at other brokerages to downgrade a company’s stock after the receipt of unfavorable information about the firm. Importantly, we document that analysts at non-sanctioned brokerages also reduce the optimism in their stock recommendations when a peer analyst’s brokerage is sanctioned, consistent with regulatory spillovers as a result of routine regulatory monitoring. Our study provides empirical evidence that regulatory action against sell-side brokerages is associated with a reduction in sell-side analysts’ positive bias at both sanctioned and non-sanctioned brokerages.

Keywords: analysts, sell-side, stock recommendations, FINRA, regulators

JEL Classification: G10, G24, G38, K22, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Call, Andrew C. and Sharp, Nathan Y. and Wong, Paul A., Changes in Analysts’ Stock Recommendations Following Regulatory Action Against Their Brokerage (May 1, 2019). Mays Business School Research Paper No. 3402180, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3402180 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3402180
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
A Agrawal , M A Chen
Do analyst conflicts matter? Evidence from stock recommendations
The Journal of Law & Economics , volume 51 , issue 3 , p. 503 - 537 Posted: 2008
Crossref
O Altinkiliç , R S Hansen
On the information role of stock recommendation revisions
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 36 Posted: 2009
W Bailey , H Li , C X Mao , R Zhong
Regulation Fair Disclosure and earnings information: Market, analyst, and corporate responses
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 6 , p. 2487 - 2514 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B M Barber , R Lehavy , M Mcnichols , B Trueman
Can investors profit from the prophets? Security analyst recommendations and stock returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 56 , p. 531 - 563 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,411
RANK
514,660
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies