Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Family Firms Friendly to Women?

Posted: 19 Jun 2019

Hsiu-I Ting

National Taipei University of Technology

Ming-Chun Wang

National Kaohsiung University of Science and Technology - Department of Finance and Banking

Yi-Jun Lin

National Taipei University of Technology

Date Written: June 10, 2019

Abstract

This study used listed firms in Shanghai and Shenzhen from 2004 to 2014 to investigate whether family firms help women break the glass ceiling. We find that family firms appoint female CEOs more often than non-family firms. Our finding does not result from the limitation of family firms to recruit talent from family members. Family firms even provide a female-friendly workplace for professional CEOs. Family firms that operate under conservative management are inclined to appoint women regarded as risk-averse. The tendency of family firms to hire female CEOs is partially attributed to homophily.

Keywords: gender; family firm; female CEO; glass ceiling; risk aversion; homophily

JEL Classification: J16, G30, M12, M14

Suggested Citation:

Ting, Hsiu-I and Wang, Ming-Chun and Lin, Yi-Jun, Are Family Firms Friendly to Women? (June 10, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3402153
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
680
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies