Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beneficial Ownership and the Contractual Obligation to Pass on Income

Beneficial Ownership and the Contractual Obligation of an Interposed Company to Pass on Income, 72 Bull. Intl. Taxn. 12 (2018), Journals IBFD

Posted: 21 Jun 2019

Saurabh Jain

Jindal Global Law School, O.P. Jindal Global University

John Prebble KC

Victoria University of Wellington, Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Law; Institut für Österreichisches und Internationales Steuerrecht, Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien; University of Notre Dame Australia - School of Law

Date Written: October 15, 2018

Abstract

The absence of dominion shows that a recipient company is a nominee or agent, and therefore, is not entitled to treaty benefits. The presence of dominion, however, does not necessarily make a recipient company entitled to treaty benefits. Under property law a recipient company, which is not a nominee or agent, is not obliged to pass on income. It possesses dominion over passive income by definition. For this reason, dominion cannot be considered to be a conclusive test for deciding conduit company cases.

A possible reason why a recipient company passes on passive income is that it is contractually obliged to do so. The Conduit Companies Report describes such a company as having narrow powers in respect of the passive income it receives. That is, the recipient company is not free to decide how to use that income. In such a case, the presence of narrow powers is a result of the existence of a contractual obligation, not an obligation in property law.

The absence of a contractual obligation to pass on passive income does not necessarily show that a recipient company is the beneficial owner. The existence of such an obligation is a strong indicator that a recipient company is passing on treaty benefits to residents of a third state. It should not, however, be considered to be a decisive criterion for refusing treaty benefits. The arrangement should be examined as a whole.

Reasoning of the judicial forums in Aiken Industries v Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Indofood International Finance Limited v JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, London Branch, and the Cook case supports this argument. In these cases, the judicial forums found that the recipient companies were contractually obliged to pass on passive income to residents of a third state. However, they decided not to base their decision on this finding. They examined the substance of the arrangement as a whole, and determined whether the arrangement complied with the object and purpose of the double tax treaty in question.

Keywords: Beneficial ownership, Dominon, withholding tax, Aiken Industries v Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Indofood International Finance Limited v JP Morgan Chase Bank NA, London Branch, the Cook case

Suggested Citation:

Jain, Saurabh and Prebble KC, John, Beneficial Ownership and the Contractual Obligation to Pass on Income (October 15, 2018). Beneficial Ownership and the Contractual Obligation of an Interposed Company to Pass on Income, 72 Bull. Intl. Taxn. 12 (2018), Journals IBFD, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3403937
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
803
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies