Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Credit Unions have Distinct Objectives? Evidence from Executive Compensation Structures

van Rijn, J., Zeng, S., & Hueth, B. (2022). Do credit unions have distinct objectives? Evidence from executive compensation structures. Ann Public Coop Econ. 00 1– 34. https://doi.org/10.1111/apce.12365

35 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2019 Last revised: 14 Jan 2022

Jordan van Rijn

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Agricultural and Applied Economics

Shuwei Zeng

Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC); University of Wisconsin-Madison - Agricultural and Applied Economics

Brent Hueth

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Agricultural & Applied Economics

Date Written: November 18, 2020

Abstract

Credit unions compete directly with commercial banks in markets for consumer financial services yet receive an exemption from federal corporate income tax. Commercial banks claim that credit unions are no different than banks and that the credit union tax exemption represents an unfair competitive advantage. Credit unions counter that while they offer similar products and services, they differ from commercial banks in terms of structure and mission, given their not-for-profit, cooperative status. In this paper, we test for substantive differences in the objective functions of commercial banks and nonprofit credit unions by comparing CEO compensation structures. Drawing on the relevant principal-agent literature, we provide several arguments to support the hypotheses that credit union boards of directors establish lower-powered incentive contracts with their CEOs relative to similarly sized commercial banks, and offer lower total compensation. We find that credit union CEOs receive approximately two-and-a-half times less performance-based compensation relative to CEOs of similarly sized community banks. Bank CEOs also earn approximately 15% to 20% more total compensation on average. The results are generally robust to controlling for CEO- and board-level characteristics, local economic conditions, and institution-level indicators of size, growth, complexity, liquidity and risk. The findings suggest important differences in incentive structures and objectives between banks and credit unions.

Keywords: Executive compensation, Banks, Credit unions, Prosocial behavior, Cooperatives, Principal-agent

JEL Classification: G2, G3, H2

Suggested Citation:

van Rijn, Jordan and Zeng, Shuwei and Hueth, Brent, Do Credit Unions have Distinct Objectives? Evidence from Executive Compensation Structures (November 18, 2020). van Rijn, J., Zeng, S., & Hueth, B. (2022). Do credit unions have distinct objectives? Evidence from executive compensation structures. Ann Public Coop Econ. 00 1– 34. https://doi.org/10.1111/apce.12365 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3403048 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3403048
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
145 References
Adams References , R B Mehran , H
Bank board structure and performance: Evidence for large bank holding companies
Journal of financial Intermediation , volume 21 , p. 243 - 267 Posted: 2012
M E K Agoraki , M D Delis , P K Staikouras
The effect of board size and composition on bank Efficiency
International Journal of Banking, Accounting and Finance , volume 2 , issue 4 , p. 357 - 386 Posted: 2010
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Identity and the Economics of Organizations
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 19 , p. 9 - 32 Posted: 2005
S Almond , Kendall , J
Low pay in the UK: the case for a three sector comparative approach
Annals of Public and Cooperative Economics , volume 72 , p. 45 - 76 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,048
RANK
278,438
145 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies