Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt Covenants, Agency Costs and Debt Maturity

44 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2019

Jamie Alcock

University of Oxford

Frank Finn

University of Queensland

Kelvin Jui Keng Tan

University of Queensland - Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: June 14, 2019

Abstract

Corporate debt maturity is a concave function of financial leverage when the debt has restrictive asset-based covenants attached. This concavity kicks in earlier with increasing covenant tightness and is absent when firms have no restrictive asset-based covenants. We argue that this concavity is suboptimal for equityholders and will arise if managers' prioritize maintaining firm control over reducing the firm's cost of capital. Managers of highly levered firm choose shorter-term debt (at a higher cost) to reduce the probability of covenant violation. We also find that maturity-leverage concavity is reduced when executive remuneration contracts better align managers and owners' interests.

Keywords: Debt Covenants, Debt Maturity, Leverage, Capital Structure, Agency Costs

JEL Classification: G32, G33, G34

Suggested Citation:

Alcock, Jamie and Finn, Frank and Tan, Kelvin Jui Keng, Debt Covenants, Agency Costs and Debt Maturity (June 14, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3403989 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3403989
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
J Alcock , F Finn , K J K Tan
The determinants of debt maturity in Australian firms
Accounting and Finance , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 313 - 341 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M J Barclay , L M Marx , C W Smith
The joint determination of leverage and maturity
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 149 - 167 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M J Barclay , C Smith
The maturity structure of corporate debt
Journal of Finance , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 609 - 631 Posted: 1995
Crossref
M T Billett , T.-H D King , D C Mauer
Growth opportunities and the choice of leverage, debt maturity, and covenants
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 697 - 730 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
250
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,659
RANK
279,521
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies