Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of the Duration of the Voluntary Administration Process: An Unconditional Quantile Regression Analysis

51 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2019 Last revised: 22 May 2020

John Goodwin

Corvinus University

James Routledge

Hitotsubashi University

Date Written: April 30, 2020

Abstract

This study explores determinants of voluntary administration (VA) and deed of company arrangement (DOCA) durations using unconditional quantile regression (UQR). There is heterogeneity in the strength of determinants across the VA and DOCA distributions. Determinants related to complexity and negotiation, including size, debt restructuring and firm age are more important at longer VA durations. Determinants related to scale and procedure, including size, capital provider existence and accounting quality are more important at longer DOCA durations. Few determinants explain short VA and DOCA durations. The UQR results uncovered other new empirical regularities.

Keywords: voluntary administration, deed of company arrangement, duration

JEL Classification: M41, G33

Suggested Citation:

Goodwin, John and Routledge, James, Determinants of the Duration of the Voluntary Administration Process: An Unconditional Quantile Regression Analysis (April 30, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3403984 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3403984
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
B E Adler
Bankruptcy and risk allocation
Cornell Law Review , volume 77 , p. 439 - 489 Posted: 1992
Crossref
P A Aguiar Do Monte
Wage cost of incidence and duration of unemployment in Brazil
The Indian Journal of Labour Economics , volume 59 , p. 511 - 528 Posted: 2016
M Gamboa-Cavasos , F Schneider
Bankruptcy as a legal process, Working paper Posted: 2007-04-19
X Gine , I Love
Do reorganization costs matter for efficiency? Evidence from a bankruptcy reform in Colombia , volume 3970 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
968
RANK
718,946
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies