Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Structure of Private Funds, Their Relation to Private Firms, and the Implications for Accounting, Economics, and Finance Research

Posted: 20 Jun 2019 Last revised: 29 Jun 2022

Paul Mason

Baylor University

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 13, 2019

Abstract

This paper is being split into 3 papers:

"Understanding Private Equity Funds: A Guide to Private Equity Research in Accounting" available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4029787

"Private Equity Fund Pricing in Secondary Markets: Effects of Taxes and Fund Structure" available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4007635

"Many Datasets Do Not Contain “Firm-Level” Data: Implications for Finance and Economics Research" available soon



Original Abstract:
Private equity and venture capital funds (“private funds”) are an increasingly important component of the economy and hold substantial ownership in other private firms. These funds have unique legal organizational structures, which academic literature has not yet accounted for. This paper has three main goals. First, we lay out the basic legal structure of private funds and describe how these funds interact with the firms they own (“portfolio companies”). Second, we explain the implications of this structure for recent finance research, focusing on how funds’ structure affects secondary market pricing of funds. Third, we discuss how both private fund and private firm structure affects accounting and economics research on private firms. Because a large number of private firms are now owned by private funds, falling under the funds’ unique organizational structure, we urge caution in drawing conclusions regarding private firms when researchers are unable to clearly distinguish between stand-alone private firms and those private firms owned and controlled by private funds (or other parent entities). We also specifically discuss the use of tax return data to study private firms; under the current laws of the U.S., these data are unlikely to allow researchers to isolate stand-alone firms, making these data unreliable for evaluating certain private firm attributes in economics, as well as private firm financial reporting choices in accounting.

Keywords: Private Funds, Private Firms, Liquidity, Financial Reporting, Governance

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Mason, Paul and Utke, Steven, The Structure of Private Funds, Their Relation to Private Firms, and the Implications for Accounting, Economics, and Finance Research (June 13, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3403702 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3403702
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,911
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies