Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Control across the World

Journal of Finance, Forthcoming

230 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2019

Gur Aminadav

London Business School

Elias Papaioannou

London Business School; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Date Written: April 11, 2019

Abstract

We provide an anatomy of corporate control around the world after tracing controlling shareholders for thousands listed firms from 127 countries between 2004 and 2012. The analysis reveals considerable and persistent differences across and within regions, as well as across legal families. Government and family control is pervasive in civil-law countries. Equity blocks in widely-held corporations are commonplace, but less so in common-law countries. These patterns apply to large, medium, and small listed firms. In contrast, the association between income and corporate control is highly heterogeneous; the correlation is strong among big and especially very large firms, but absent for medium and small listed firms. We then examine the association between corporate control and various institutional features. Shareholder rights against insiders' self-dealing activities correlate strongly with corporate control, though legal formalism and creditor rights less so. Corporate control is strongly related to labor market regulations, concerning, among others, the stringency of employment contracts, the power and extent of unions. The large sample correlations, thus, offer support to both legal origin and political-development theories of financial development.

Keywords: corporate control, family firms, government ownership, investor protection, law and finance, ownership concentration, regulation

JEL Classification: G30, K00, N20

Suggested Citation:

Aminadav, Gur and Papaioannou, Elias, Corporate Control across the World (April 11, 2019). Journal of Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3404596 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3404596
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Gur Aminadav , Yoram Bachrach , Konstantin Kosenko , Jeffrey S. Rosenschein , Yoav Wilf
Rebuilding the Great Pyramids: A Method for Identifying Control Relations in Complex Ownership Structures
Pages: 46 Posted: 4 Aug 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John F Banzhaf , Iii
Weighted Voting Does Not Work: a Game Theoretic Approach
Rutgers Law Rev , volume 19 , p. 317 - 343 Posted: 1965
Stefano Battiston , James B Glattfelder , Diego Garlaschelli , Fabrizio Lillo , Guido Caldarelli
The Structure of Financial Networks , p. 131 - 163 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Juan C Botero , Simeon Djankov , Rafael La Porta , Florencio Lopez-De-Silanes , Andrei Shleifer
The Regulation of Labor
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 119 , issue 4 , p. 1339 - 1382 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Hugh Grove , Maclyn Clouse , Tracy Xu
Stakeholder capitalism strategies and opportunities for corporate governance
Journal of Governance and Regulation , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 59 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Mozaffar Khan
Corporate Governance, ESG, and Stock Returns around the World
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 75 , issue 4 , p. 103 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Takayuki Mizuno , Shohei Doi , Shuhei Kurizaki , Hocine Cherifi
The power of corporate control in the global ownership network
PLOS ONE , volume 15 , issue 8 , p. e0237862 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Laura Abrardi , Laura Rondi
Incentive Contracts Under Profit Diversion: The Agency Problem in Family Firms
JBF-D-23-00498 · 69 Pages · Posted: 22 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 50
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
355
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,848
RANK
192,754
4 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies