Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ex Post Settling Up in Cash Compensation: New Evidence

Contemporary Accounting Review, 36: 1929 – 2694

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper No. 3404299

64 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2019 Last revised: 7 Jan 2022

Ana M. Albuquerque

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Bingyi Chen

University of Colorado Denver

Qi (Flora) Dong

Kennesaw State University

Eddie Riedl

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Date Written: January 30, 2019

Abstract

This paper provides new evidence on whether and how boards solve costly ex post settling up to recover CEO cash compensation for unrealized gains that fail to materialize. Our analyses are motivated by the likely expanding role for ex post settling up as the risk of compensating executives for unrealized gains that may never materialize increases in a more intangibles-based economy, as well as by the conflicting evidence of prior research. We provide evidence consistent with ex post settling up by: (i) using alternative truncation methods to derive observations most likely to fall within the theoretically-motivated incentive zone; (ii) replicating and reconciling the conflicting results of prior research that supports (Leone et al. 2006) and fails to support (Shaw and Zhang 2010) ex post settling up; (iii) using Incentive Lab data with contract-specific information allowing strong identification of observations in the incentive zone; and (iv) documenting predictable cross-sectional variation, with ex post settling up being more pronounced for firms with stronger corporate governance, less conservative accounting earnings, and a larger proportion of total pay in the form of cash compensation. Overall, we conclude that evidence is strong in support of the ex post settling up hypothesis.

Keywords: management compensation, pay-performance sensitivity, ex post settling up, cash compensation contracts

JEL Classification: D23, J33, M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Albuquerque, Ana M. and Chen, Bingyi and Dong, Qi (Flora) and Riedl, Edward J., Ex Post Settling Up in Cash Compensation: New Evidence (January 30, 2019). Contemporary Accounting Review, 36: 1929 – 2694, Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper No. 3404299, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3404299
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
R Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
A Agrawal , R A Walkling
Executive careers and compensation surrounding takeover bids
The Journal of Finance , volume 49 , p. 985 - 1014 Posted: 1994
A Albuquerque
Peer firms in relative performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , p. 69 - 89 Posted: 2009
R Banker , M Darrough , R Huang , J Plehn-Dujowich
The relation between CEO compensation and past performance
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,149
RANK
347,387
5 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies