Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Moderating Effect of Enterprise Risk Management on the Relationship between Audit Committee Characteristics and Corporate Performance: A Conceptual Case of Jordan

International Journal of Academic Research Business and Social Sciences, Vol. 9 , No. 5, May 2019

18 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2019

Saddam Shatnawi

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM) - Faculty of Economics and Muamalat

Mustafa Hanefah

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM) - Faculty of Economics and Muamalat

Abdelhakhem Adaa

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM) - Faculty of Economics and Muamalat

Dr. Monther Eldaia

Al-Aqsa University

Date Written: april 30, 2019

Abstract

The moderating effect of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) on the relationship between Audit Committee (AC) characteristics and corporate performance under Jordanian context remains a challenge that is yet to be resolved. Jordan plays a significant role on Middle East economy, and recently attracted the attention of the investors. Audit committee characteristics have a significant effect on corporate financial and risk decision-making practices in Jordan. The fundamental AC role is to supervise the corporate’s financial reporting practice, review of financial reports, auditing practice, internal accounting controls, and risk management practices. Hence, the risk management committee (RMC) and AC can potentially moderate the relationship between risk management disclosure and firm performance. Several results of the previous literature were found fraternized, unclear, and inconsistent regarding the ERM effect on firm performance or its effect on AC characteristics in general context, while the literature on Jordan context remain very scarce inaccessible. Therefore, this paper, with regards to existing literature, conceptualized that ‘ERM’ moderates the relationship between AC size, number of AC meeting, AC independence, accounting expertise in the AC, Muslim directors in the AC, and corporate performance.

Keywords: Audit Committee Characteristic, ERM, Corporate Performance, Jordan, Moderating

Suggested Citation:

Shatnawi, Saddam and Hanefah, Mustafa and Adaa, Abdelhakhem and Eldaia, Dr. Monther, The Moderating Effect of Enterprise Risk Management on the Relationship between Audit Committee Characteristics and Corporate Performance: A Conceptual Case of Jordan (april 30, 2019). International Journal of Academic Research Business and Social Sciences, Vol. 9 , No. 5, May 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3404737
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
S S Abbadi , Q F Hijazi , A S Al-Rahahleh
Corporate governance quality and earnings management: evidence from Jordan
Business and Finance Journal , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 54 - 75 Posted: 2016
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L J Abbott , Y Park , S Parker
The Effects of Audit Committee Activity and Independence on Corporate Fraud
Managerial Finance , volume 26 , issue 11 , p. 55 - 67 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Abdullah , Z A Shukor
The Comparative Moderating Effect of Risk Management Committee and Audit Committee on the Association Between Voluntary Risk Management Disclosure and Firm Performance
Journal Pengurusan (UKM Journal of Management Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
592
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,253
RANK
104,934
3 Citations
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies