Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Analysts and Investors Efficiently Respond to Managerial Linguistic Complexity during Conference Calls?

Forthcoming, The Accounting Review

47 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2019 Last revised: 13 Jan 2024

Brian J. Bushee

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Ying (Julie) Huang

University of Louisville

Date Written: January 9, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines whether analysts and investors efficiently incorporate the informational signals from managerial linguistic complexity (e.g., Fog) into their forecasts and trading decisions. We predict that a manager’s Fog during a conference call provides a signal of their private information through their willingness to engage with analyst questions. We find that informative (obfuscatory) managerial Fog provides a positive (negative) signal of future earnings growth. We also find that analysts efficiently revise their forecasts to both positive and negative signals, whereas investors only correctly interpret obfuscation during the call; there is a delayed price reaction to informative Fog. However, when buy-side investors ask questions during a call, we find an efficient price reaction to informative Fog. Our findings highlight an important benefit of two-way interactive disclosures and underline the importance of active call participation for efficiently incorporating linguistic signals of managers’ private information.

Keywords: conference call; linguistic complexity; two-way engagement; informative technical disclosure; analyst forecasts; market reaction.

JEL Classification: D82; G14; G20; M41

Suggested Citation:

Bushee, Brian J. and Huang, Ying, Do Analysts and Investors Efficiently Respond to Managerial Linguistic Complexity during Conference Calls? (January 9, 2024). Forthcoming, The Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3405086 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3405086
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
J Abarbanell , R Lehavy
Can stock recommendations predict earnings management and analysts' earnings forecast errors
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2003
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
S P Baginski , J M Hassell
Determinants of management forecast precision
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 2 , p. 303 - 312 Posted: 1997
R A Y Ball , L Shivakumar
The role of accruals in asymmetrically timely gain and loss recognition
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 242 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
949
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,330
RANK
56,239
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies