Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Short Sellers and Long-Run Management Forecasts

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2019-98

57 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2019

Xia Chen

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Qiang Cheng

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Ting Luo

Tsinghua University

Heng Yue

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 7, 2019

Abstract

We examine how short sellers affect long-run management forecasts using a natural experiment (Regulation SHO) that relaxes short-selling constraints on a group of randomly selected firms (referred to as pilot firms). We find that compared to other firms, the pilot firms issue more long-run good news forecasts but do not change the frequency of long-run bad news forecasts. The increase in good news forecasts is greater when the pilot firms have higher quality forecasts, more uncertainty about firm value, or higher manager equity incentives. Overall, these results and the results of additional analyses indicate that the reduction in short-selling constraints and the increase in short-selling threat induce managers to enhance disclosures through more long-run forecasts, primarily in the case of good news, to discourage short sellers.

Keywords: Short Sales; Corporate Disclosures; Management Forecasts

JEL Classification: G11, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Xia and Cheng, Qiang and Luo, Ting and Yue, Heng, Short Sellers and Long-Run Management Forecasts (June 7, 2019). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2019-98, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3405867 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3405867
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
C Anilowski , M Feng , D J Skinner
Does earnings guidance affect market returns? The nature and information content of aggregate earnings guidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J E Core , W R Guay
Do independent directors cause improvements in firm transparency
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 113 , issue 3 , p. 383 - 403 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Baker , J Wurgler
Investor sentiment and the cross-section of stock returns
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 4 , p. 1645 - 1680 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Robert M. Bushman , Jedson Pinto
The Influence of Short Selling on the Production and Market Consequences of Negative Press Coverage
Management Science, Accepted. · 48 Pages · Posted: 5 Sep 2020 · Last revised: 3 Mar 2023 · Downloads: 433
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,054
RANK
327,219
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies