Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Issues with Public Disclosure of Non-GAAP Financial Metrics

31 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2019

Michael Gordon

University of Maryland, Robert H. Smith School of Business

Date Written: May 13, 2019

Abstract

The use of non-Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (non-GAAP) metrics by firms has increased dramatically in recent years. However, the regulatory structure for ensuring these metrics do not cross the line from appropriate discretion by managers to misleading investors has not kept pace. The last major pronouncement from the SEC addressing the disclosure of non- GAAP metrics was several years ago and has only been supplemented with unofficial clarifications to deal with highly technical aspects of securities laws. This paper examines the widespread usage of non-GAAP metrics and why the current lack of regulation with regards to disclosure of these data in unofficial settings, such as social media, is a problem that regulators need to address for protection of the investing public.

Keywords: GAAP, Companies, Metrics, Earnings, Securities, Accounting

Suggested Citation:

Gordon, Michael, Issues with Public Disclosure of Non-GAAP Financial Metrics (May 13, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3405661 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3405661
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
D E Black , E L Black , T E Christensen , K H Gee
Non-GAAP Earnings for Contracting and Financial Disclosure Posted: 2018
D E Black , T E Christensen , J T Cieseilski , B C Whipple
Non-GAAP Reporting: Evidence from Academia and Current Practice
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting Posted: 2017-04
Crossref
D E Black , T E Christensen , J T Ciesielski , B C Whipple , E L Black , T E Christensen , P V Kiosse , T D Steffen
Has the Regulation of Non-GAAP Disclosures Influenced Managers' Use of Aggressive Earnings Exclusions?
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 209 - 240 Posted: 2015-09-10
Crossref
E Blankespoor , G S Miller , H D White
The Role of Dissemination in Market Liquidity: Evidence from Firms' Use of Twitter
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 112 Posted: 2014-01
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,873
RANK
286,433
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies