Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trans-Tasman Cooperation in Banking Supervision and Resolution

Journal of Banking Regulation, 21(1), 15-25.

21 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2019 Last revised: 8 Mar 2020

Dirk Schoenmaker

Rotterdam School of Management, Erasmus University; Erasmus Research Institute of Management (ERIM); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Date Written: March 7, 2020

Abstract

Four major Australian banks span the Australian and New Zealand banking system. Applying the financial trilemma model, this article investigates possible approaches for cooperation in the supervision and resolution of these cross-border banks. The article first reviews the current arrangement in the Trans-Tasman Council of Banking Supervision, which is based on a soft law approach. Next, this article explores a trans-Tasman banking union, which would encompass joint supervision and joint resolution based on burden sharing. The challenge is political. Are the two countries willing to join forces in banking policies and thus give up part of their sovereignty in this field? And can New Zealand, as the smaller one of the two, ensure an effective voice in joint arrangements?

Keywords: International Banks, Banking Supervision, Burden Sharing, Resolution Planning

JEL Classification: F30, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Schoenmaker, Dirk, Trans-Tasman Cooperation in Banking Supervision and Resolution (March 7, 2020). Journal of Banking Regulation, 21(1), 15-25., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3405262 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3405262
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
A Anginer , E Cerutti , M. Soledad Martinez Peria
Foreign Bank Subsidiaries Default Risk during the Global Crisis: What Factors Help Insulate Affiliates from their Parents?
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 29 , p. 19 - 31 Posted: 2017
Crossref
E Avgouleas , C Goodhart
Critical Reflections on Bank Bail-ins
Journal of Financial Regulation , volume 1 , p. 3 - 29 Posted: 2015
Crossref
T Beck , W Wagner
Supranational Supervision: How Much and for Whom?
International Journal of Central Banking , volume 12 , p. 221 - 268 Posted: 2016
C Brown , K Davis , D Mayes
Regulatory change in Australia and New Zealand following the global financial crisis
Journal of Financial Economic Policy , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 8 - 28 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
886
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies