Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interim Effective Tax Rate Estimates and Internal Control Quality

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Mays Business School Research Paper No. 3406093

Posted: 24 Jun 2019

Sean T. McGuire

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Stevanie S. Neuman

University of Missouri at Columbia - School of Accountancy

Sarah C. Rice

Texas A&M University - Mays Business School

Date Written: May 7, 2019

Abstract

This study examines whether the volatility of interim estimates of the annual effective tax rate (ETR) provides ex ante information about the quality of firms’ internal control environments. Recent research suggests that some firms selectively disclose internal control weaknesses (ICWs). Given the negative consequences associated with ICWs, it is important for capital market participants to be able to identify firms with ineffective internal controls in a timely manner. We find that firms with more volatile annual ETR estimates are more likely to report both tax- and non-tax-related ICWs in the current year. Our results also indicate that the volatility of annual ETR estimates declines following the remediation of tax-related ICWs, but not following the remediation of non-tax-related ICWs. In addition, we find that ETR volatility in the current year is associated with the likelihood that a firm will report an ICW in the following year. Finally, we provide evidence that the volatility of annual ETR estimates is associated with the likelihood that a firm has an undisclosed ICW. In combination, our results suggest that the volatility of interim estimates of the annual ETR provides an ex ante signal of the likelihood that a firm’s internal controls are ineffective.


Keywords: internal control effectiveness, interim financial statements, tax expense, effective tax rates, internal control weaknesses, restatements, internal control weakness remediation

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

McGuire, Sean T. and Neuman, Stevanie S. and Rice, Sarah C., Interim Effective Tax Rate Estimates and Internal Control Quality (May 7, 2019). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Mays Business School Research Paper No. 3406093, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3406093
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
880
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies