Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competition for Talent and Cyclical Malpractice in Corporate Governance

44 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2019 Last revised: 22 Dec 2022

Alvaro Remesal

Banco de España

Date Written: December 13, 2022

Abstract

We present a model that rationalizes the cyclical nature of executive compensation and malpractice. The model features a principal-agent setting where effort and misreporting incentives are at conflict and managerial talent is a scarce asset. In the optimal contract, investors exploit a combination of short-term bonuses and investment in monitoring, but competition for managerial talent exacerbates malpractice and increases incentive pay. Malpractice dampens the efficient reallocation of assets, which supports regulations that modulate executive pay and corporate governance. Embedded into a dynamic general equilibrium with household savings and endogenous rates of return, the model reproduces the build-up of malpractice during expansions and its reduction after declines in aggregate output.

Keywords: Executives, Governance, Compensation, Malpractice, Cycles

JEL Classification: G34, G35, E32

Suggested Citation:

Remesal, Alvaro, Competition for Talent and Cyclical Malpractice in Corporate Governance (December 13, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3406658 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3406658
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Acharya , Marco Viral , Paolo Pagano , Volpin
Seeking alpha: Excess risk-taking and competition for managerial talent
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 29 , issue 10 , p. 2565 - 2599 Posted: 2016
Viral V Acharya , Paolo F Volpin
Corporate governance externalities
Review of Finance , volume 14 , issue 1 Posted: 2009
S Aiyagari , Rao
Uninsured idiosyncratic risk and aggregate saving
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 659 - 684 Posted: 1994
Rui A Albuquerque , M B Luis , Jose Cabral , Guedes
Relative performance, banker compensation, and systemic risk Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
609
RANK
702,914
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies