Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tone at the Top: CEOs’ Religious Beliefs and Earnings Management

Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2019

Ye Cai

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Yongtae Kim

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Siqi Li

Santa Clara University

Carrie H. Pan

Santa Clara University - Department of Finance

Date Written: June 19, 2019

Abstract

Diverging from recent research that focuses on the effect of community religion on corporate outcomes, we study how top executives’ personal religiosity affects corporate transparency. Using educational experience in church-affiliated colleges as a proxy for CEOs’ religiosity, we show that firms with religious CEOs are associated with significantly less earnings management than firms with non-religious CEOs. Our results are robust to using matched samples and a difference-in-differences analysis based on voluntary CEO turnovers. The effect of CEO religiosity on earnings management is more pronounced when firms use more equity-based CEO compensation or when firms face higher operating cash flows volatility, and the effect is weaker in the post-SOX period. We also find evidence that firms with religious CEOs are less likely to engage in real earnings management. Taken together, our findings suggest an important role of CEOs’ religious beliefs in shaping corporate policies.

Keywords: Religion, CEO characteristics, Earnings management, Educational experience

JEL Classification: I23, J24, M41, Z12

Suggested Citation:

Cai, Ye and Kim, Yongtae and Li, Siqi and Pan, Carrie H., Tone at the Top: CEOs’ Religious Beliefs and Earnings Management (June 19, 2019). Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3406835
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
L Bamber , J Jiang , I Wang
What's my style? The influence of top managers on voluntary corporate financial disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
Crossref
T Barnett , K Bass , G Brown
Religiosity, ethical ideology and intentions to report a peer's wrongdoing
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 15 , issue 11 , p. 1161 - 1175 Posted: 1996
Crossref
R Barro , R Mccleary
Religion and economic growth
American Sociological Review , volume 68 , p. 760 - 781 Posted: 2003
R Barsky , F Juster , M Kimball , M Shapiro
Preference parameters and behavioral heterogeneity: An experimental approach in the health and retirement study
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 112 , p. 1937 - 1996 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,351
RANK
311,489
2 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies