Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cybersecurity Risk and Bank Loan Contracting

The Accounting Review, forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2019 Last revised: 21 Aug 2025

Amy Sheneman

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Date Written: December 17, 2017

Abstract

Cybersecurity risk is a growing concern for public companies as economic activity increasingly relies on technology. Drawing on finance theory, which posits that lenders possess private information about borrowers, I hypothesize that lenders price cybersecurity risks into loan contracts. A priori, this relation is unclear, given the unpredictable nature of cybersecurity risk and the difficulty lenders face in assessing the likelihood and magnitude of associated losses. Using the private debt market, I find a positive association between cybersecurity risk and the cost of debt. This relation is weaker for borrowers with high-quality information technology (IT) and stronger in less competitive lending markets. I also find that, following successful cyberattacks, secondary market loan prices decline (increase) for borrowers with high (low) ex-ante cybersecurity risk. Overall, these results suggest that, while the SEC’s newly adopted cybersecurity disclosures may provide decision-useful information to retail investors, they may be less relevant for certain stakeholders.

Keywords: cost of debt, cybersecurity, technology, regulation, risk management, cyber risk

JEL Classification: M41, G32, O33

Suggested Citation:

Sheneman, Amy, Cybersecurity Risk and Bank Loan Contracting (December 17, 2017). The Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3406217 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3406217
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
P Akey , S Lewellen , I Liskovich , C Schiller
Hacking corporate reputations. Working paper Posted: 2024
L Allen , H Guo , J Weintrop
The information content of quarterly earnings in syndicated bank loan prices
Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 91 - 121 Posted: 2008
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
E Amir , S Levi , T Livne
Do firms underreport information on cyber-attacks? Evidence from capital markets
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 1177 - 1206 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,082
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,631
RANK
46,939
3 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies