Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Reporting Practices & IFRSs - Review of Literature

Posted: 25 Jun 2019

Rajat Deb

Tripura University

Date Written: January 1, 2016

Abstract

The study has reviewed the related literature on International Financial Reporting Statements (IFRSs) adoption and convergences to summarize the research outcome, has identified the research gaps as well as has justified the future research agenda. The studies on IFRSs adoption has attained momentum globally for last two decades and in India since last couple of years when it has decided to follow the convergence route from 2016-17. Adopting the Integrative Literature Review technique and accessing the e-resources of six international publishers, the study has reviewed the selective articles having full texts published in peerreviewed journals in last 13 years. Further, it has developed some delimiting boundaries for screening the literature and has focused on the objectives, variables, units of studies, results, publishers and year of publications of the cited papers to synthesize a summary of the research trends, has acknowledged few limitations and pointed out the roadmap for future studies.

Keywords: IFRSs adoption, IFRSs convergence, Disclosures

Suggested Citation:

Deb, Rajat, Corporate Reporting Practices & IFRSs - Review of Literature (January 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3407301
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
614
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies