Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'I Access Your Data, You Access Mine'. Requiring Data Reciprocity in Payment Services

International Review of Intellectual Property and Competition Law - IIC, 51, 2020, p. 307-329 (forthco)

27 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2019 Last revised: 22 Apr 2020

Fabiana Di Porto

Department of Law and Economics, University of Rome "UnitelmaSapienza"; Luiss Guido Carli University

Gustavo Ghidini

University of Milan; Luiss University, School of Law

Date Written: June 20, 2019

Abstract


https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/s40319-020-00914-1.pdf

Article 36 of the EU Payment Services Directive 2 No. 2015/2366 (hereinafter also referred to as PSD2) awards digital operators, called third party payment providers (TPPs), the right to freely access users’ payment accounts data (known as XS2A rule), typically detained by incumbent banks, to provide payment initiating services (PIS) or account information services (AIS). The stated goal of the XS2A rule is to let develop an infant industry: that of Fintech payment services.

However, mounting evidence suggests that unlike Fintech startups, big techs may benefit from the norm putting a much stronger challenge to established banks, which have less access to data about consumers’ behavior (preferences, habits and conducts), less analytics capacity, and thus are put to a competitive disadvantage by the XS2A rule. According to many, that may result in competition harm and consumer welfare reduction in the medium-long run.

The article revisits the very rationales for introducing the XS2A rule, by critically assessing its asserted goals (Part 1).

It then suggests (Part 2) that to level the playing field among the market players involved, and increase its overall proportionality, the norm be revisited. In the relationship between big techs and the banks, we propose to complement the XS2A rule with a ‘reciprocity clause’.

Instead of free accessing customer account data, big tech would pay by counter-providing access to the behavioral data in their possession, pertaining to the same customers concerned by the XS2A, and upon their consent. Data thus transmitted would only be available upon condition that they are used to increase the efficiency of the payment service provision.

Reciprocity would greatly enhance data circulation among market participants, while fostering competition among them, creating incentives for more innovation, and strengthening the overall proportionality of the XS2A rule.

https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/s40319-020-00914-1.pdf

Keywords: financial markets, banks, big data, AI, algorithms, access to account, privacy, database, competition, regulation

Suggested Citation:

Di Porto, Fabiana and Ghidini, Gustavo and Ghidini, Gustavo, 'I Access Your Data, You Access Mine'. Requiring Data Reciprocity in Payment Services (June 20, 2019). International Review of Intellectual Property and Competition Law - IIC, 51, 2020, p. 307-329 (forthco), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3407294 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3407294
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
475
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,357
RANK
137,964
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies