Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR-Contingent Executive Compensation Incentive and Earnings Management

Sustainability 2019, 11(12), 3421

12 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2019 Last revised: 25 Sep 2019

Zhichuan Frank Li

University of Western Ontario - Ivey School of Business

Caleb Thibodeau

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 22, 2019

Abstract

This paper empirically studies the connection between earnings management and corporate social performance, conditional on the existence of CSR-contingent executive compensation contracts, an emerging practice to link executive compensation to corporate social performance. We find that executives are more likely to manipulate earnings to achieve their personal compensation goals when CSR rating is low, as well as their CSR-contingent compensation. Because of public pressure on their excessive total compensation, corporate executives see no need to manipulate earnings to increase compensation when their CSR-contingent compensation is already high. Our results suggest that earnings management and CSR-contingent compensation are substitute tools to serve the interests of executives, which is an agency problem that was never previously studied. Additionally, we explore how managerial characteristics affect earnings management, driven by the incentive effects of CSR-linked compensation.

Keywords: earnings management, corporate social responsibility, CSR-contingent compensation, CSR contract, executive compensation, discretionary accruals

Suggested Citation:

Li, Zhichuan Frank and Thibodeau, Caleb, CSR-Contingent Executive Compensation Incentive and Earnings Management (June 22, 2019). Sustainability 2019, 11(12), 3421, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3408270
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
H Deangelo , L Deangelo
Union negotiations and corporate policy A study of labor concessions in the domestic steel industry during the 1980s
J. Financ. Econ , volume 30 , p. 3 - 43 Posted: 1991
Crossref
K J Murphy
Executive compensation. In Handbook of Labor Economics
O Ashenfelter , D Card
Posted: 1999
B Mohan , T Schlager , R Deshpandé , M I Norton
Consumers avoid buying from firms with higher CEO-to-worker pay ratios
J. Consum. Psychol , volume 28 , p. 344 - 352 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,133
RANK
411,549
5 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies