Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Stock Liquidity Affect Corporate Tax Avoidance? Evidence from China

54 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2019 Last revised: 4 Aug 2020

E. Han Kim

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Yao Lu

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Xinzheng Shi

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Dengjin Zheng

Central University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: August 4, 2020

Abstract

Prior studies show stock liquidity improves price informativeness and strengthens governance. Stock price informativeness offers an incentive for managers with equity-based compensation to avoid tax. Strengthening governance, by contrast, reduces tax avoidance if diverting corporate profits for private benefits complements tax avoidance. Using an exogenous shock that drastically increased the liquidity of stocks listed in China, we find robust evidence that higher liquidity significantly increases the overall level of tax avoidance. The increase is more substantial when controlling shareholders own more shares, and when diversion is less complementary to tax avoidance. Liquidity has no significant impact on tax evasion—the most aggressive and risky tax avoidance—and at the higher ends of the tax avoidance distribution. The positive and significant effects are observed only at lower levels of tax avoidance. We attribute the weaker impact of liquidity on aggressive tax avoidance to diversion being more complementary to higher-risk tax avoidance.

Suggested Citation:

Kim, E. Han and Lu, Yao and Shi, Xinzheng and Zheng, Dengjin, How Does Stock Liquidity Affect Corporate Tax Avoidance? Evidence from China (August 4, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3409700 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3409700
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
457
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,517
RANK
144,509
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies