Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from U.S. Cross-listing

The Accounting Review

50 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2019 Last revised: 10 Mar 2023

Ruiyuan (Ryan) Chen

West Virginia University

Sadok El Ghoul

University of Alberta - Campus Saint-Jean

Omrane Guedhami

University of South Carolina - Moore School of Business

He (Helen) Wang

West Virginia University - Department of Finance

Yang Yang

Southern illinois university carbondale

Date Written: May 25, 2019

Abstract

Using a sample of firms from 51 countries and a difference-in-differences approach that exploits corporate governance shocks induced by cross-listing in the U.S., we find that firms tend to engage in less tax avoidance after cross-listing. This effect is more pronounced for firms that experience significant improvements in corporate governance, and for firms from countries with weaker shareholder protection and disclosure requirements. Taken together, the results indicate that cross-listing in the U.S. helps align the interests of managers and shareholders and reduces managerial diversion.

Keywords: cross-listing, tax avoidance, corporate governance, shareholder protection

JEL Classification: G21, G18, G32, G34, G35

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Ruiyuan and El Ghoul, Sadok and Guedhami, Omrane and Wang, He and Yang, Yang, Corporate Governance and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from U.S. Cross-listing (May 25, 2019). The Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3409587 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3409587
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , R Stulz , R Williamson
Differences in governance practices between US and foreign firms: Measurement, causes, and consequences
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 8 , p. 3131 - 3169 Posted: 2008
R Aggarwal , C Kearney , B Lucey
Gravity and culture in foreign portfolio investment
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 525 - 538 Posted: 2012
D Amiram , A M Bauer , M M Frank
Tax avoidance at public corporations driven by shareholder taxes: Evidence from changes in dividend tax policy
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 5 , p. 27 - 55 Posted: 2019
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,972
RANK
39,976
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies