Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committees Response to Key Audit Matters and Note Disclosures

Posted: 27 Jun 2019

Gladys Lee

University of Melbourne

Robyn Moroney

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Soon-Yeow Phang

Monash University

Date Written: June 26, 2019

Abstract

A Key Audit Matter (KAM) is a matter considered most significant during an audit. Our study examines AC members’ response to a draft KAM tabled by auditors at an AC meeting. Drawing on research on cognitive effect we examine whether AC members react differently when a draft KAM is more or less similar to a matter described in a note to the financial statements and whether they are alerted to regulatory financial report surveillance on the accounting area addressed in the note and KAM. We find that when a draft KAM is less similar to a matter described in a note to the financial statements and when alerted to regulatory surveillance, AC members ask their auditor more probing questions and focus more of their meeting discussing the KAM with the auditor. In this situation, AC members also perceive litigation risk is higher and provide less support for retaining unchanged the wording proposed in the draft KAM. This behavior suggests that there are circumstances that may work against the intent of the auditing standard (AS 3101 and ISA 701) to enhance KAM disclosure quality.

Keywords: Audit committees; audit report; key audit matters; regulatory surveillance

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Gladys and Moroney, Robyn and Phang, Soon-Yeow, Audit Committees Response to Key Audit Matters and Note Disclosures (June 26, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3410139
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,631
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies