Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Critical Role of Internal Auditing in Addressing Bank Fraud: A Conceptual Framework

Case Studies Journal ISSN (2305-509X) – Volume 5, Issue 3–March-2016

15 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2019

Georgios Vousinas

National Technical University of Athens

Date Written: March 2016

Abstract

The recent global financial recession highlighted the critical role that the banking system plays in the modern economy. Banks are complex financial institutions that operate in a constantly changing business environment and deal with high levels of risk, while facing fraudulent actions in regular basis. In order to address these problems, banks engage in various internal audit techniques such as the implementation of controls and prevention tools, the usage of anti-fraud methods and data mining. The aim of this paper is to highlight the crucial role of internal auditing in addressing bank fraud. This is achieved by initially providing a review of both theoretical and empirical literature which helps in determining the value of internal auditing and then by proposing a conceptual framework in order to justify its interconnection with bank fraud, and also to serve as a guide for all future reference. The results confirm the fact that internal audit can play a major role in risk assurance and bank fraud management thus, ensuring banks’ normal and uninterrupted operation. The paper also provides some useful insights for future application of internal audit methods thus, laying the ground for a fruitful dialogue among the various stakeholders.

Keywords: internal audit, banking system, fraud, risk, loss

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Vousinas, Georgios, The Critical Role of Internal Auditing in Addressing Bank Fraud: A Conceptual Framework (March 2016). Case Studies Journal ISSN (2305-509X) – Volume 5, Issue 3–March-2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3410253
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Idowu Abiola
An Assessment of Fraud and its Management in Nigeria Commercial Banks
European Journal of Social Sciences , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 628 - 640 Posted: 2009
I Ahmed , M Madawaki , F Usman
Managing Bank Fraud and Forgeries Through Effective Control Strategies. A Case Study of Central Bank of Nigeria, Gombe Branch
International Journal of Business and Management Invention , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 7 - 17 Posted: 2014
S K Asare , R A Davidson , A A Gramling
Internal Auditors' Evaluation of Fraud Factors in Planning an Audit: The Importance of Audit Committee Quality and Management Incentives
International Journal of Auditing , volume 12 , p. 181 - 203 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Report to the Nation on Occupational Fraud and Abuse". Bank for International Settlements (B.I.S), The Internal Audit function in banks
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners Posted: 2011
Load more
1 Citations
Georgios Vousinas
Assessing the Effectiveness of Internal Audit Units in Addressing Bank Fraud. Evidence From the Greek Banking System
28 Pages · Posted: 7 Jun 2019 · Downloads: 156
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
551
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,787
RANK
115,073
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies