Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determine Dividends by Shareholder Gains, Not Corporate E&P

163 Tax Notes 871 (May 6, 2019)

10 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2019

Calvin H. Johnson

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Date Written: May 6, 2019

Abstract

Johnson proposes that shareholder gain from a dividend be determined based on the shareholder’s own situation rather than the corporate earnings and profits account, which is often dysfunctional. If the stock value drops below the shareholder's basis by reason of the dividend, the shareholder has lost some investment, and the dividend is recovery of basis in full or in part. If the stock value is higher than shareholder basis even after the dividend, the shareholder has gain only.

Keywords: Taxation Corporate Dividends

JEL Classification: H24, H25

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Calvin Harsha, Determine Dividends by Shareholder Gains, Not Corporate E&P (May 6, 2019). 163 Tax Notes 871 (May 6, 2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3411310
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
853
RANK
572,087
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Other Financial Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies