Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Structure and Earnings Management in Indonesian Listed Banks

Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.2 No.2, 2019

13 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2019

Arja Sadjiarto

Petra Christian University

Chaterine Setio

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Windasari Rizky Budiarti

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 14, 2019

Abstract

We do the study whether the ownership structure has any effect on earnings management in Indonesian listed banks during 2010-2017. Ownership structure consists of managerial, institutional, family and government ownership. Earnings management is measured using Jones modification formula by identifying the value of discretionary accruals. Since the financial ratios used in this sector are different with the ratios for other sectors, then we use two specific ratios: capital adequacy ratio and non-performing loans, together with return on assets, leverage, and size. We take samples from banking companies on the Indonesia Stock Exchange for the period 2010-2017. The analysis used in this study is the multiple linear regression analysis. The finding is that the ownership structure has a significant effect on earnings management.

Keywords: Ownership Structure, Earnings Management, Indonesian Listed Bank

Suggested Citation:

Sadjiarto, Arja and Setio, Chaterine and Budiarti, Windasari Rizky, Ownership Structure and Earnings Management in Indonesian Listed Banks (May 14, 2019). Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.2 No.2, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3412288 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3412288
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,145
RANK
325,744
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies