Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Evolution of Internal Audit Research: A Bibliometric Analysis of Published Documents (1926–2016)

Joel Behrend & Marc Eulerich (2019) The evolution of internal audit research: a bibliometric analysis of published documents (1926–2016), Accounting History Review, 29:1, 103-139.

Posted: 30 Jun 2019

Joel Behrend

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 3, 2019

Abstract

Addressing the rise of internal auditing in the post-SOX era, this study examines the scientific transformation of the topic within current accounting research. In an attempt to shed light on the existing research themes and core works that have been shaping this topic, we combine co-citation and social network analysis to analyse citation patterns of 170 research articles published in five leading accounting journals between 1926 and 2016. The scientific landscape of internal auditing within accounting research is found to be highly fragmented and partly defined by internal auditors' relationships to other parties of the corporate governance framework. Additionally, results reveal the existence of a research nucleus which emphasises the increasingly important construct of internal audit quality.

Keywords: Internal audit, internal audit function, bibliometrics, co-citation analysis

Suggested Citation:

Behrend, Joel and Eulerich, Marc, The Evolution of Internal Audit Research: A Bibliometric Analysis of Published Documents (1926–2016) (May 3, 2019). Joel Behrend & Marc Eulerich (2019) The evolution of internal audit research: a bibliometric analysis of published documents (1926–2016), Accounting History Review, 29:1, 103-139., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3412068
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,001
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies