Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Attributes and Corporate Performance: Evidence from Nonfinancial Firms in Nigeria

The Asian Institute of Research Journal of Economics and Business Vol.2, No.2, 2019: 205-217 ISSN 2615-3726

14 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2019

Nkechi Emeka-Nwokeji

Independent

Date Written: April 5, 2019

Abstract

Corporate board is pressured from all stakeholders for better reporting on corporate health. Meanwhile, effective discharge of the responsibilities of a corporate board is assured by an appropriate balance of skills and diversity without compromising competence, independence, and integrity. This study examines the extent to which corporate board attributes drive the performance of non-financial firms in Nigeria. The study adopted ex post facto research design. Data were extracted through content analysis from the annual report of 93 out of 122 non-financial firms listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange from 2006 to 2015. Collected data were analysed with pooled ordinary least square regression conducting diagnostic tests to confirm the assumptions of the regression. Analysis revealed that: Board size and board gender diversity have a positive and significant effect on corporate performance. While board independence and board remuneration have a negative and significant effect on corporate performance. Also, directors' shareholding has a negative but insignificant effect on corporate performance. Based on the findings, the study among other things recommends that companies in Nigeria should promote diversity in its membership across a variety of attributes particularly gender diversity considering that it is relevant for enhancing firm performance. Also, Company should remunerate fairly, responsibly and transparently so as to reduce the decreasing effect of board remuneration and promote positive outcomes in the short, medium and long term.

Keywords: Board Attributes, Corporate Performance, Agency Theory, Gender Diversity, Sustainability

Suggested Citation:

Emeka-Nwokeji, Nkechi, Board Attributes and Corporate Performance: Evidence from Nonfinancial Firms in Nigeria (April 5, 2019). The Asian Institute of Research Journal of Economics and Business Vol.2, No.2, 2019: 205-217 ISSN 2615-3726, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3412276
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Ahmed Sheikh , N Wang , Z Khan , S
The impact of internal attributes of corporate Governance on firm performance: evidence from Pakistan
International Journal of Commerce and Management , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 38 - 55 Posted: 2013
O J Akinyomi , E A Olutoye
Corporate Governance and Profitability of Nigerian Banks
Asian Journal of Finance & Accounting , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 172 - 182 Posted: 2015
Crossref
W B Amar , A Boujenoui , C Francoeur
CEO attributes, board composition, and acquirer value creation: A canadian study
Canadian Journal of Administrative Sciences/Revue Canadienne des Sciences de l'Administration , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 480 - 492 Posted: 2011
Crossref
E Arioglu
Market reaction to director independence at Borsa Istanbul
Borsa Istanbul Review , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 259 - 271 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
919
RANK
411,549
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies