Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Governmental Decentralization Accelerate the Accounting Manipulation of State-Owned Enterprises? Evidence from China

Posted: 1 Jul 2019

Qiaoling Su

Xiamen University

Xunchang Zhang

Jinan University

Date Written: 10 13, 2018

Abstract

Pyramidal structures are the common methods to organize enterprises, either private or state-owned around the world. This study considers both political cost and agency cost theory in pyramidal structures constructed by Chinese government mainly for governmental decentralization. Although this pyramids structure, with intermediate layers, support to minimize political costs of governmental intervention, they also detour managers from their top owners and hence aggrandize agency costs. All else equal, according to the agency cost theory, we assume that the changed pyramidal structures enhance motivations of accounting manipulations, because of reducing supervision from the top owners; on the other hand, according to the political cost theory, these pyramidal structures reduce motivations of accounting manipulations for remitting intervention from government. Based on hand-collected data from all Chinese A listed local-state-owned enterprises (SOE hereafter) between 2004 and 2016, we find that the pyramidal structures in China have not achieved the optimal partition of power between the state-owner and the managers where the point at the marginal agency costs are equal to the marginal political costs, encouraging earnings management on SOE after governmental decentralization. We further investigate on whether pyramidal structure is associated with earnings management, and find that managers without holding shares, the lower level of salary and the higher level of interventional districts increase earning management when the level of intermediate layers enhanced.

Keywords: State-owned; Pyramid; earnings management

JEL Classification: D22, D23, G32, L22, L32, P31

Suggested Citation:

Su, Qiaoling and Zhang, Xunchang, Does Governmental Decentralization Accelerate the Accounting Manipulation of State-Owned Enterprises? Evidence from China (10 13, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3412604
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
513
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies