Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Structure and Bank Performance: Evidence for the Greek Banking Industry During Crisis Period

International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues, 2017, 7(1), 56-67

12 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2019

Andreas G. Georgantopoulos

National and Kapodistrian University of Athens; Panteion University of Athens - Panteion University of Political and Social Sciences

John Filos

Panteion University of Athens - Panteion University of Political and Social Sciences

Date Written: July 2, 2017

Abstract

The recent financial crisis has heightened the research interest worldwide in the relationship between various corporate governance (CG) mechanisms and firm performance. Nevertheless, few published papers focus on investigating this nexus for the case of the banking industry. This study is the first that empirically assesses the impact of board structure on bank performance for the case of Greek banks using a variety of econometric methodologies. Exhaustive empirical findings are presented based on a sample of 13 Greek banks and for a period of severe sovereign debt crisis (2008-2014). Empirical findings support an inverted U-shaped relation between board size and bank performance and between the proportion of independent board members and performance of Greek banks. All empirical findings are generated after we control for mergers and acquisitions activity, bank size and capital adequacy of each bank. Overall, our results document the positive contribution of the implemented CG regulatory framework on the Greek bank value.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Bank Performance, Board Structure

JEL Classification: C52, G34, G21

Suggested Citation:

Georgantopoulos, Andreas G. and Filos, John, Board Structure and Bank Performance: Evidence for the Greek Banking Industry During Crisis Period (July 2, 2017). International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues, 2017, 7(1), 56-67, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3413666
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
R B Adams , H Mehran
Is corporate governance different for bank holding companies? Federal Reserve Bank of New York Economic Policy Review , volume 9 , p. 123 - 142 Posted: 2003
Renée B. Adams , Hamid Mehran
Corporate Performance, Board Structure, and Their Determinants in the Banking Industry
FRB of New York Staff Report No. 330 Pages: 43 Posted: 25 Jun 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R B Adams , H Mehran
Bank board structure and performance: Evidence for large bank holding companies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 21 , p. 243 - 267 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Agrawal , C Knoeber
Firm performance and mechanisms to control agency problems between managers and shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
754
RANK
697,608
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies