Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Branding Good Corporate Governance: A Pathway to Strengthen Investors’ Perception and Brand Equity

International Journal of Economics and Management Engineering Vol:13, No:5, 2019

6 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2019

Mohammad Shariful Islam

Bangladesh Army International University of Science and Technology (BAIUST)

Date Written: July 2, 2019

Abstract

Corporate governance has become a crucial issue in both the business and academic world as a result of world-wide financial scandals and lack of trust in corporate practices. There is no doubt that in order to thrive and attain growth in the market, a company must earn the trust of its stakeholders by consistently delivering on its commitments. Directors of the companies thus comprehend the importance of upfront communication with relevant stakeholders to increase their confidence. The authors of this article argue that practicing good corporate governance is not enough in this highly competitive market place; corporate leaders need to market their good corporate governance practices in order to make the company more attractive to investors. This article also contends that the strength of corporate governance relies wholly upon the extent to which it is communicated simply, effectively and unceasingly to its stakeholders. The main objective of this study, therefore, is to explore the importance of branding good corporate governance in order to increase corporate brand equity, attract investors, and capture market share. A structured questionnaire comprising three sections and a total of 34 questions was prepared and surveyed by the authors among respondents residing in Bangladesh and who also have an academic and corporate background, to investigate the potential impact of branding good corporate governance in the market place. High mean values for individual questions and overall section depict that communicating and branding good corporate governance to the stakeholders will not only boost the investors’ confidence but also increase the corporate brand equity, yielding both profitable and sustainable business environment.

Suggested Citation:

Islam, Mohammad Shariful, Branding Good Corporate Governance: A Pathway to Strengthen Investors’ Perception and Brand Equity (July 2, 2019). International Journal of Economics and Management Engineering Vol:13, No:5, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3413437 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3413437
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
M Y Al-Qudah , L Al Rubaiee
The effect of corporate governance on customer relationship quality and marketing performance Posted: 2012
M Ammann , D Oesch , M M Schmid
Corporate governance and firm value: International evidence , volume 18 , p. 36 - 55 Posted: 2011
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings , volume 42 , p. 203 - 246 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Banerjee , S Gokarn , M Pattanayak , S K Sinha
Corporate governance and market value: Preliminary evidence from Indian companies , volume 12 , p. 42 - 77 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,159
RANK
475,518
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies