Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Credit-Risk Relevance of Loan Impairments under IFRS 9 for CDS Pricing: Early Evidence

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

79 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2019 Last revised: 28 Jul 2021

Romain Oberson

IESEG School of Management

Date Written: July 5, 2021

Abstract

Since 2018, banks have implemented the expected credit loss (ECL) model under International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 9 to estimate loan losses, which replaces the incurred loss model under International Accounting Standard (IAS) 39. The key novelty of the ECL model is the incorporation of forward-looking information for recognizing accounting loan loss provisions (LLPs), which provides ample room for managerial discretion. Over the period 2014–2019, I first show that the shift to the ECL model improves the timeliness of loan loss recognition. However, under the IFRS 9 regime managers also use their accounting discretion more aggressively over LLP estimates to smooth earnings. I then investigate whether IFRS 9 improves the relevance of LLPs for credit default swap (CDS) pricing. I report that LLPs under IFRS 9 are incrementally more relevant than under IAS 39 for CDS pricing but mostly concentrated amongst banks with weaker pre-IFRS 9 information environments. I further show that under the IFRS 9 regime, LLPs are relevant for CDS pricing only when LLPs consistently reflect future expected losses while earnings smoothing via LLP generally impair the credit-risk relevance of LLPs. Finally, I find that strong governance is imperative for providing useful LLP estimates for CDS pricing.

Keywords: Credit Default Swaps, Credit Risk, IFRS 9, Banks

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Oberson, Romain, The Credit-Risk Relevance of Loan Impairments under IFRS 9 for CDS Pricing: Early Evidence (July 5, 2021). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3414614
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
286
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,099
RANK
244,478
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies