Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Opportunism and Guidance Transparency

53 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2019

Amir Rubin

Simon Fraser University (SFU) - Beedie School of Business; Reichman University

Alexander Vedrashko

Simon Fraser University - Beedie School of Business

Date Written: July 4, 2019

Abstract

We provide a parsimonious framework for measuring managerial opportunism based on the transparency of corporate disclosure policy. The guidance transparency index gauges firms’ propensity for managerial opportunistic behavior in their guidance releases and predicts operating performance, valuation, and returns. When employing a hedge portfolio based on guidance transparency, we observe a significant alpha, with this effect being particularly pronounced when firms are differentiated by their level of financial constraint. Our findings also demonstrate that providing guidance is neither inherently good nor bad for firm performance compared to firms that do not provide guidance; instead, investors value the level of guidance transparency.

Keywords: Guidance, Governance, Disclosure, Financial Crisis, Leverage, Timing, Transparency

JEL Classification: G12, G14, L20, M41

Suggested Citation:

Rubin, Amir and Vedrashko, Alexander, Managerial Opportunism and Guidance Transparency (July 4, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3414826 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3414826
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
Crossref
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
N Baba , F Packer
From turmoil to crisis: dislocations in the FX swap market before and after the failure of Lehman Brothers
Journal of International Money and Finance , volume 28 , issue 8 , p. 1350 - 1374 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J S Baek , J K Kang , K S Park
Corporate governance and firm value: Evidence from the Korean financial crisis
Journal of Financial economics , volume 71 , issue 2 , p. 265 - 313 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
984
RANK
627,127
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies