Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Valuation Methods on the Likelihood of Mergers and Acquisitions of High-tech Startup Companies in Nigeria

Okafor, A. (2018). Impact of valuation methods on the likelihood of mergers and acquisitions of high-tech startups companies in Nigeria (Doctoral dissertation). Available from ProQuest Digital Dissertations and Theses database. (UMI No. 10828378)

194 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2019

Anthony Okafor

University of Louisville

Date Written: July 5, 2018

Abstract

Valuing high-tech startups using traditional valuation models has continued to pose valuation challenges to entrepreneurs, investors as well as financial analysts. The complications in valuing startups are heightened by the variations in valuation methodologies and the absence of operational data. Identifying the appropriate methodology for valuing startups is crucial to establishing value and a prerequisite for accessing funding through mergers or acquisitions. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of valuation methods on the likelihood of mergers and acquisitions of high-tech startup organizations in the Nigerian capital market. The theoretical underpinning of this study is rooted in valuation theory and mergers and acquisitions theories. The extent to which valuation methods impact the likelihood of securing funds through mergers and acquisitions was the overarching research question. Random sampling was used to obtain records of valuation methods and mergers and acquisitions that occurred between 2006 and 2016 from companies in the high-tech sector. A binary logistic regression model was used to test the impact of valuation methods on the likelihood of mergers and acquisitions of high-tech startups. The impact of valuation methods on the likelihood of mergers and acquisitions was found to be not statistically significant. The participants indicated a preference for specific valuation methods during negotiations for mergers and acquisitions. The findings have implications for positive social change via a reduction in the unemployment rate by encouraging startups with their innovation and entrepreneurship. This should help to facilitate the emergence of sound valuation methods for valuing high-tech startups in the Nigerian capital market.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Valuation Methods

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Okafor, Anthony, The Impact of Valuation Methods on the Likelihood of Mergers and Acquisitions of High-tech Startup Companies in Nigeria (July 5, 2018). Okafor, A. (2018). Impact of valuation methods on the likelihood of mergers and acquisitions of high-tech startups companies in Nigeria (Doctoral dissertation). Available from ProQuest Digital Dissertations and Theses database. (UMI No. 10828378), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3415673
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
341 References
P Acheampong , S K Swanzy
Empirical test of single Factor and multi-factor asset pricing models: Evidence from non-financial firms on the Ghana stock exchange (GSE) Posted: 2016
Crossref
International Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 110
Crossref
S Aggarwal , M K Saxena
A comparative study of emotional intelligence of undergraduate students
Research Journal for Interdisciplinary Studies , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 218 - 225 Posted: 2012
E Aggelopoulos
Understanding bank valuation: An application of the equity cash flow and the residual income approach in bank financial accounting statements
Open Journal of Accounting , volume 6 , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,727
RANK
362,694
341 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies