Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Academic Experience, External Monitoring, and Financial Reporting Quality

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2019

Zhiming Ma

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Kirill E. Novoselov

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Kaitang Zhou

Soochow University - Business School

Yi Zhou

Fudan University

Date Written: July 2019

Abstract

This study examines the effect of managerial academic experience on firms’ financial reporting quality. Using data from China, we find that firms with top managers possessing academic experience exhibit lower levels of both accrual and real earning management, along with a lower probability of future restatements. This effect is more pronounced for firms with inefficient external monitoring, suggesting that the higher financial reporting quality is mainly explained by the managers’ intrinsic motivation to report truthfully. The results hold when we use firm fixed-effect regressions, instrumental variable two-stage regressions, and propensity score matching (PSM) approach to mitigate the omitted variable and endogeneity concerns. Our study suggests that academic experience can serve as a source of valuable expertise for corporate executives.

Keywords: academic experience; top management team; financial reporting quality; earnings management; expertise; external monitoring; imprinting; intrinsic motivation

JEL Classification: D83; J62; M41; M51

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Zhiming and Novoselov, Kirill E. and Zhou, Kaitang and Zhou, Yi, Managerial Academic Experience, External Monitoring, and Financial Reporting Quality (July 2019). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3415757
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Crossref
J K Aier , J Comprix , M T Gunlock , D Lee
The financial expertise of CFOs and accounting restatements
Accounting Horizons , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 123 - 135 Posted: 2005
Crossref
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Economics and identity
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 115 , issue 3 , p. 715 - 753 Posted: 2000
Crossref
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Identity Economics: How Our Identities Shape Our Work, Wages, and Well-Being Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,924
RANK
487,089
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies