Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Refocusing on the Success Enabling Factors in Mergers and Acquisitions

European Scientific Journal June 2019 edition Vol.15, No.16 ISSN: 1857 – 7881 (Print) e - ISSN 1857- 7431

19 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2019

Anthony Okafor

University of Louisville

Date Written: June 30, 2019

Abstract

Mergers and acquisitions have continued to serve as a primary financing tool undertaken by organizations to achieve corporate objectives. Despite the increased popularity of the mergers and acquisitions phenomenon, determining acceptable metrics for identifying successful mergers and acquisitions continue to pose challenges to investors, financial analysts and other stakeholders involved with mergers and acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions activities have presented mixed outcomes to different organizations with high failure rates recorded in some and less-significant successes reported in others. Consequently, understanding acceptable metrics for determining a successful merger or acquisition becomes paramount given the challenges experienced by players in that industry. Therefore, a thorough review of the literature is made in this study to identify factors that improve the chances of mergers and acquisitions success. The unique features of successful and unsuccessful mergers and acquisitions are itemized to provide a premise for assessing and evaluating the essential characteristics that make mergers and acquisitions successful. The importance of due diligence, low acquisition purchase premiums, and related business acquisitions in the mergers and acquisitions process were fully explicated. Low acquisition purchase premiums, timing of mergers and acquisitions and related business acquisitions were found to tremendously enhance the success of mergers and acquisitions.

Suggested Citation:

Okafor, Anthony, Refocusing on the Success Enabling Factors in Mergers and Acquisitions (June 30, 2019). European Scientific Journal June 2019 edition Vol.15, No.16 ISSN: 1857 – 7881 (Print) e - ISSN 1857- 7431, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3415637
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
Access Bank
Access Bank annual report Posted: 2013
K Aderinokun , O Chima
Ecobank targets Oceanic for retail banking expansion Posted: 2011
R Aguilera , J Dencker
The role of human resource management in cross-border mergers and acquisitions
The International Journal of Human Resource Management , volume 15 , p. 1355 - 1370 Posted: 2004
Crossref
G Alexandridis , C F Mavrovitis , N G Travlos
How have M&As changed? Evidence from the sixth merger wave
The European Journal of Finance , volume 18 , issue 8 , p. 663 - 688 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
690
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,331
RANK
86,200
1 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies