Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Firms’ Emissions Management Strategy Disclosures on Investors’ Valuation Judgments

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 10 Jul 2019 Last revised: 19 Jul 2019

Joseph A. Johnson

University of South Carolina - Department of Accounting

Jochen Theis

University of Southern Denmark

Adam Vitalis

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Donald Young

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: June 11, 2019

Abstract

Recent accounting research indicates that capital markets price firms’ greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and that disclosed emission levels are negatively associated with firms’ market values (Griffin et al. 2017; Matsumura et al. 2014). The departure point for this study is to investigate whether investors value firms differently based on the strategies firms use to mitigate GHG emissions. These strategies include making operational changes, which reduces emissions attributable to the firm, and purchasing offsets, which reduces emissions unattributable to the firm. Using an experiment, we hold constant a firm’s financial performance, investment in emissions mitigation, and net emissions, and find evidence that non-professional investors perceive the firm to be more valuable when it primarily uses an operational change strategy versus an offsets strategy. However, consistent with theory (Flammer 2013), this result only occurs when the firm’s prior sustainability performance is below the industry average and not when it is above the industry average. This difference in firm value is consistent with the notion that non-professional investors believe information about a firm’s emissions management strategy is material. Supplemental exploratory analyses reveal that our results are mediated by investors’ perception that an operational change strategy is more socially and environmentally responsible than an offsets strategy for below industry average firms. Implications for our findings on theory and practice are discussed.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, GHG emissions, firm value, CSR disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Joseph A. and Theis, Jochen and Vitalis, Adam and Young, Donald, The Influence of Firms’ Emissions Management Strategy Disclosures on Investors’ Valuation Judgments (June 11, 2019). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3416798
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
875
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies