Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dark Side of Bank CEO Risk-taking Incentives: Evidence from Bank Lending Decisions

52 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2019

Po-Hsin Ho

National Central University - Department of Finance

Chih-Yung Lin

National Chiao Tung University

Tran Thi Thuy Linh

Yuan Ze University

Date Written: September 1, 2018

Abstract

This paper investigates how bank CEO risk-taking incentives influence bank lending decisions. Consistent with the existing CEO incentive literature, we find that CEOs with higher risk-taking incentives (vega) tend to relax their lending standards in bank loan contracts to pursue higher compensation. We find that banks with a high vega tend to charge a significantly lower loan spread, demand fewer loan covenants, and have lower probability to seek collateral. Results become weaker when banks have strong corporate governance mechanisms, supporting the proposition that high CEO risk-taking incentives may create an agency problem between a bank manager and shareholders.

Keywords: CEO incentives, bank loan contracts, corporate governance, agency problem

JEL Classification: G21, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Ho, Po-Hsin and Lin, Chih-Yung and Linh, Tran Thi Thuy, The Dark Side of Bank CEO Risk-taking Incentives: Evidence from Bank Lending Decisions (September 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3416023 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3416023
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
V Acharya , H Naqvi
The seeds of a crisis: A theory of bank liquidity and risk taking over the business cycle
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 106 , p. 349 - 366 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Viral V. Acharya , Viral V. Acharya , Hassan Naqvi
On Reaching for Yield and the Coexistence of Bubbles and Negative Bubbles
Journal of Financial Intermediation, 38C, pp. 1-10, 2019 Pages: 35 Posted: 16 Jun 2015 Last revised: 10 May 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the Boardroom and their impact on Governance and Performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Adams , H Mehran
Bank Board Structure and Performance: Evidence for Large Bank Holding Companies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 21 , p. 243 - 267 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Theodora Bermpei , Antonios Nikolaos Kalyvas , Lorenzo Neri , Antonella Russo
Does economic policy uncertainty matter for financial reporting quality? Evidence from the United States
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 795 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,067
RANK
478,373
1 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies