Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discussion of ‘Making Sense of Soft Information: Interpretation Bias and Loan Quality’

Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming

14 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2019

Rahul Vashishtha

Duke University

Date Written: June 2019

Abstract

Campbell, Loumioti, and Wittenberg-Moerman (2018), henceforth CLW, provide evidence on the effect of human cognitive limitations on the processing of soft information in a Credit Union. Their results suggest that cognitive limitations constitute an important barrier to financial markets’ ability to extract soft information. In this discussion, I delineate CLW’s contribution and implications of their results, highlight key features of the empirical analyses that address interpretational difficulties that might confront some readers, and point out some limitations and unanswered questions that appear important to address in future research to obtain a more complete understanding of soft information production in financial markets.

Keywords: soft information; banks; limited attention; cognitive biases; information production

JEL Classification: G21, D03, D12, D19

Suggested Citation:

Vashishtha, Rahul, Discussion of ‘Making Sense of Soft Information: Interpretation Bias and Loan Quality’ (June 2019). Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3417923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
906
RANK
618,599
3 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies