Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Audit Firm Internal Inspections on Auditor Effort and Financial Reporting Quality

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2019 Last revised: 29 Aug 2023

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Reining Petacchi

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Date Written: October 31, 2022

Abstract

We examine the effect of large audit firms’ internal inspection programs, an important monitoring mechanism, on auditor effort and financial reporting quality. Internal inspections are often predictable, and engagement teams concentrate their effort on audits ultimately selected for inspections. The extra-effort increases the likelihood of a favorable inspection rating. We find some evidence of improvement in financial reporting quality in the inspection year, suggesting that internal inspections are effective in deterring auditor shirking. Upon receiving a favorable rating, the engagement team reverts audit effort back to the pre-inspection level. However, if the rating is unfavorable, the team increases effort on future engagements of the client. This higher effort improves the client’s financial reporting quality if the internal inspection program is not deemed deficient by the PCAOB. Collectively, the results highlight the importance of an effective internal inspection program in improving financial reporting quality.

Suggested Citation:

Aobdia, Daniel and Petacchi, Reining, The Effect of Audit Firm Internal Inspections on Auditor Effort and Financial Reporting Quality (October 31, 2022). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3419484 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3419484
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
C Ai , E Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
D Aobdia
The economic consequences of audit firms' quality control system deficiencies
Management Science , volume 66 , issue 7 , p. 2883 - 2905 Posted: 2020
D Aobdia , P Choudhary , N Newberger , D , N Shroff
The economics of audit production: what matters for audit quality? An empirical analysis of the role of mid-level managers within the audit firm
Regulatory oversight and auditor market Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 63 , p. 262 - 287 Posted: 2017
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection process -Preliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,056
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,438
RANK
48,539
3 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies