Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Ownership and Tail Risk Comovement in Banks

Management Science, 0[10.1287/mnsc.2023.02522]

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3420516

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3420516

62 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2019 Last revised: 7 Aug 2025

Emmanuel T. De George

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Nayana Reiter

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Christina Synn

American University

Christopher D. Williams

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Date Written: December 13, 2024

Abstract

Recent regulatory discussions concentrate on the role institutional investors play in the financial
sector. We investigate the determinants and consequences of institutional ownership (IO) in banks.
Our findings suggest that institutional owners invest more in banks that have a lower proportion of
consumer and real estate loans, are less opaque, have a lower level of insider control, are larger, older,
more capitalized and have lower stock return volatility. In contrast, banks’ funding characteristics,
loan risk appetite and connectedness with other banks do not seem to be relevant factors in
institutional investors’ decisions to hold a bank. We further investigate whether IO is related to tail
risk comovement and changes in bank operations. We find robust evidence suggesting that IO is
positively associated with a bank’s future tail risk and that the association between IO and tail risk is
significantly higher for banks than it is for non-financial firms. We also find this relationship is
stronger for banks during economic downturns. Correspondingly, we find that there is a greater
reduction in lending growth and greater increases in opacity and risk taking during recessionary
periods for banks with higher levels of IO. Our results suggest that institutions with low monitoring
incentives in particular play a role in increasing tail risk comovement and in the deleterious real
effects of IO. Lastly, we find evidence suggesting that disclosure may play a role in mitigating the
relationship between IO and tail risk comovement.

Keywords: Institutional Ownership, Tail-Risk Comovement, Banks, Disclosure

Suggested Citation:

De George, Emmanuel T. and Reiter, Nayana and Synn, Christina and Williams, Christopher D., Institutional Ownership and Tail Risk Comovement in Banks (December 13, 2024). Management Science, 0[10.1287/mnsc.2023.02522], Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3420516, University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3420516, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3420516 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2023.02522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
V V Acharya , L H Pedersen , T Philippon , M Richardson
Measuring systemic risk
Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , p. 2 - 47 Posted: 2017
T Adrian , M Brunnermeier
CoVaR
American Economic Review , volume 106 , p. 1705 - 1741 Posted: 2016
A Almazan , J C Hartzell , L T Starks
Active institutional shareholders and costs of monitoring: Evidence from executive compensation
Financial Management , volume 34 , p. 5 - 34 Posted: 2008
K Anadu , M Kruttli , P Mccabe , E Osambela
The shift from active to passive investing: Potential risks to financial stability? Working paper, Federal Reserve Board Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
327
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,924
RANK
210,853
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies