Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Four Things No One Will Tell You About ESG Data

Journal of Applied Corporate Finance 31 (2), Spring 2019, pages 50-58.

15 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2019

Sakis Kotsantonis

KKS Advisors

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Date Written: July 15, 2019

Abstract

As the ESG finance field and the use of ESG data in investment decision‐making continue to grow, we seek to shed light on several important aspects of ESG measurement and data. This article is intended to provide a useful guide for the rapidly rising number of people entering the field. We focus on the following:
• The sheer variety, and inconsistency, of the data and measures, and of how companies report them. Listing more than 20 different ways companies report their employee health and safety data, the authors show how such inconsistencies lead to significantly different results when looking at the same group of companies.
• ‘Benchmarking,’ or how data providers define companies' peer groups, can be crucial in determining the performance ranking of a company. The lack of transparency among data providers about peer group components and observed ranges for ESG metrics creates market‐wide inconsistencies and undermines their reliability.
• The differences in the imputation methods used by ESG researchers and analysts to deal with vast ‘data gaps’ that span ranges of companies and time periods for different ESG metrics can cause large ‘disagreements’ among the providers, with different gap‐filling approaches leading to big discrepancies.
• The disagreements among ESG data providers are not only large, but actually increase with the quantity of publicly available information. Citing a recent study showing that companies that provide more ESG disclosure tend to have more variation in their ESG ratings, the authors interpret this finding as clear evidence of the need for ‘a clearer understanding of what different ESG metrics might tell us and how they might best be institutionalized for assessing corporate performance.’
What can be done to address these problems with ESG data? Companies should ‘take control of the ESG data narrative’ by proactively shaping disclosure instead of being overwhelmed by survey requests. To that end, companies should ‘customize’ their metrics to some extent, while at the same time seeking to self‐regulate by reaching agreement with industry peers on a ‘reasonable baseline’ of standardized ESG metrics designed to achieve comparability. Investors are urged to push for more meaningful ESG disclosure by narrowing the demand for ESG data into somewhat more standardized, but still manageable metrics. Stock exchanges should consider issuing—and perhaps even mandating—guidelines for ESG disclosures designed in collaboration with companies, investors, and regulators. And data providers should come to agreement on best practices and become as transparent as possible about their methodologies and the reliability of their data.

Keywords: ESG, investments, sustainability, nonfinancial data

JEL Classification: M4, G1, G2, G3, G4

Suggested Citation:

Kotsantonis, Sakis and Serafeim, George, Four Things No One Will Tell You About ESG Data (July 15, 2019). Journal of Applied Corporate Finance 31 (2), Spring 2019, pages 50-58., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3420297
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
37 Citations
Mohammed Zakriya
Sustain and Deliver: Capturing the Valuation Effects of Corporate Sustainability
ESADE Business School Research Paper Series, 9th Conference on Financial Markets and Corporate Governance (FMCG) 2018 · 73 Pages · Posted: 22 Jun 2018 · Last revised: 18 Oct 2024 · Downloads: 325
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Elizabeth Pollman
Corporate Social Responsibility, ESG, and Compliance
Forthcoming, Cambridge Handbook of Compliance (D. Daniel Sokol & Benjamin van Rooij eds.) , Loyola Law School, Los Angeles Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2019-35 · 20 Pages · Posted: 4 Nov 2019 · Downloads: 7,271
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Geert Bekaert , Richard V Rothenberg , Miquel Noguer
Sustainable Investment - Exploring the Linkage between Alpha, ESG, and SDG's
29 Pages · Posted: 11 Jun 2020 · Last revised: 4 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 3,368
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Soh Young In , Young Joon Lee , Robert G. Eccles
Looking Back and Looking Forward: A Scientometric Analysis of the Evolution of Corporate Sustainability Research over 47 Years
In, S. Y., Lee, Y. J. & Eccles, R. (2023) "Looking Back and Looking Forward: A Scientometric Analysis of the Evolution of Corporate Sustainability Research over 47 Years," Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management. https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.2679 · 35 Pages · Posted: 5 Oct 2020 · Last revised: 12 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 70
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
7,731
ABSTRACT VIEWS
20,957
RANK
1,957
37 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies