Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Common Ownership, Common Information Environment?

61 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2019

In Ji Jang

Bentley University - Department of Finance

Mahdi Mohseni

Securities and Exchange Commission

Sugata Roychowdhury

Northwestern University Kellogg School of Management

Ewa Sletten

The Ohio State University

Date Written: May 2019

Abstract

We examine the influence of common ownership on commonalities in the information environment. Specifically, we study commonalities in financial statements and in the actions of key agents such as financial analysts and firm managers who contribute and respond to the information environment. Using a differences-in-differences research design centered on the mergers of financial institutions, we find that an increase in common ownership leads to increased comparability of financial statements issued by commonly owned firms. An increase in common ownership also leads to higher likelihood of filing restatements, as greater comparability and potentially greater correlation of economic fundamentals uncover inconsistencies, errors and irregularities in reporting, particularly in the presence of shared auditors. In addition, common ownership leads to more shared coverage by financial analysts. Analysts’ earnings expectations become more correlated across peer firms, but analysts are also more likely to revise their expectations when peer firms issue earnings guidance. Finally, we shed light on the real consequences of such changes in the information environment. Managers become more likely to use the information captured in peer firms’ stock price when making investment decisions following an increase in common ownership.

Keywords: Common ownership, institutional investors, financial statement comparability, restatements, analyst coverage, analyst forecast revisions, analyst forecast errors, investment sensitivity, peer firm learning

JEL Classification: D80, D92, G11, G14, G20, G23, G30, G32, G34, L10, L40, M20, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jang, In Ji and Mohseni, Mahdi and Roychowdhury, Sugata and Sletten, Ewa, Common Ownership, Common Information Environment? (May 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3420932 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3420932
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
400
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,469
RANK
168,604
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies