Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Compensation and Risk of Turnover: Evidence from CEO Divorce

51 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2019

Mahdi Mohseni

Securities and Exchange Commission

Date Written: November 1, 2015

Abstract

Contrary to the entrenchment view of executive compensation, I find that CEOs with more control over the firm, proxied by higher equity ownership, have smaller compensation packages and are less likely to have severance contracts. Despite lower pay, these CEOs have longer tenure and their boards’ replacement decisions are less sensitive to their performance, which is consistent with the view that there is a trade-off between pay and dismissal risk. To mitigate endogeneity concerns, I use divorce as an exogenous negative shock to CEO equity ownership, and find that following a divorce, turnover risk goes up and pay increases significantly.

Keywords: CEO Ownership, Compensation, Turnover Risk, Severance Contracts, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34, J31, J33

Suggested Citation:

Mohseni, Mahdi, CEO Compensation and Risk of Turnover: Evidence from CEO Divorce (November 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3420995 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3420995
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
J Abowd , O Ashenfelter
Anticipated unemployment, temporary layoffs, and compensating wage differentials. Studies in labor markets , p. 141 - 186 Posted: 1981
L Bebchuk , A Cohen , A Ferrell
What matters in corporate governance?
Review of Financial studies , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2009
Crossref
L Bebchuk , J Fried
Pay without performance Posted: 2004
L Bebchuk , J Fried , D Walker
Managerial power and rent extraction in the design of executive compensation , volume 69 , p. 751 - 846 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,179
RANK
413,842
1 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies