Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Adoption and CEO Compensation: Evidence from Listed Banks in Nigeria

Stephen Ojeka, Alex Adegboye, Dorcas Titilayo Adetula, Kofo Adegboye and Inemesit Udoh (2019). IFRS adoption and CEO compensation: evidence from listed banks in Nigeria. Banks and Bank Systems, 14(3), 1-8. doi:10.21511/bbs.14(3).2019.01

9 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2019

Stephen Ojeka

Covenant University

Alex Adegboye

Covenant University; European Xtramile Center of African Studies

Dorcas Adetula

Covenant University - Department of Accounting

Kofo Adegboye

Covenant University - Department of Accounting

Inemesit Udoh

Covenant University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 2, 2019

Abstract

The study investigates the influence of International Financial Reporting Standards adoption, using accounting performance measure, to determine the CEO pay in listed banks in Nigeria. The audited annual financial statements of listed banks in Nigeria covering the period of 2009–2015 are analyzed. Fixed effect model, viz panel data analysis is adopted to establish the findings. The findings indicate that adoption of IFRS in Nigeria results in an inverse relationship with accounting performance in determining the CEO compensation after controlling for firm and corporate governance mechanism. However, the adoption of IFRS shows significant positive influence on the CEO pay. This result has policy implication, which encourages the regulatory agencies like Central Bank of Nigeria to monitor the compliance of all banks in Nigeria to the IFRS adoption.

Keywords: CEO compensation, corporate governance, IFRS adoption

JEL Classification: G34, G32

Suggested Citation:

Ojeka, Stephen and Adegboye, Alex and Adetula, Dorcas and Adegboye, Kofo and Udoh, Inemesit, IFRS Adoption and CEO Compensation: Evidence from Listed Banks in Nigeria (May 2, 2019). Stephen Ojeka, Alex Adegboye, Dorcas Titilayo Adetula, Kofo Adegboye and Inemesit Udoh (2019). IFRS adoption and CEO compensation: evidence from listed banks in Nigeria. Banks and Bank Systems, 14(3), 1-8. doi:10.21511/bbs.14(3).2019.01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3420581
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The relevance of the value relevance literature for financial accounting standard setting: Another view
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , issue 1-3 , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
Crossref
L A Bebchuk , J M Fried
American Economic Association Executive Compensation as an Agency Problem
The Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 71 - 92 Posted: 2003
D Cairns , D Massoudi , R Taplin , A Tarca
IFRS fair value measurement and accounting policy choice in the United Kingdom and Australia
British Accounting Review , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Y Ertimur , F Ferz , V Muslu
Shareholder Activism and CEO Pay. The Society for Financial Studies , volume 24 , p. 535 - 592 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,080
RANK
631,426
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies