Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Management, Family, and Institution on The Auditor’s Going Concern Opinion Issuance Decision

International Journal of Economics and Management 12 (2): 671-691 (2018)

21 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2019

Mohammad Noor Hisham Osman

University Putra Malaysia - Department of Accouting and Finance

Ahmed Razman Abdul Latiff

University Putra Malaysia - Putra Business School

Zaidi Mat Daud

University Putra Malaysia - Faculty of Economics and Management

Zulkarnain Muhamad Sori

International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance (INCEIF)

Date Written: September 21, 2018

Abstract

Incidents where external auditors do not issue a going concern audit opinion (GC opinion) to companies having severe financial problems have been reported globally. This issue motivated this study -- (i) to investigate the effect of selected auditor characteristics in terms of specialization, tenure, and fee on GC opinion issuance and (ii) to examine the moderating effect of management’s, family’s, and institution’s influence on the relationship between auditor characteristics and GC opinion issuance. The study involves 644 Malaysian financially distressed listed companies in the period 2006 to 2012. The results of a panel logistic regression analysis show that auditor characteristics have no relationship with GC opinion issuance. Influential management -- measured as the level of their ownership -- can dampen the positive relationship between auditor specialization and auditor tenure with GC opinion issuance. The presence of an influential family, on the other hand, can strengthen the positive relationship between auditor tenure and GC opinion. No evidence about an influential institution’s impact on the GC opinion process could be found. In conclusion, while auditor characteristics do not affect the possibility of a GC opinion issuance and/or audit quality, pressure imposed by influential management and family on the auditor during the audit opinion decision process does have an impact.

Keywords: Auditing; Audit Quality; Auditor Characteristics; Going Concern Opinion; Malaysia

JEL Classification: M42; M41

Suggested Citation:

Osman, Mohammad Noor Hisham and Latiff, Ahmed Razman Abdul and Daud, Zaidi Mat and Sori, Zulkarnain Muhamad, The Impact of Management, Family, and Institution on The Auditor’s Going Concern Opinion Issuance Decision (September 21, 2018). International Journal of Economics and Management 12 (2): 671-691 (2018) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3421235
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
L J Abbott , S Parker
Auditor selection and audit committee characteristics
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Abdul Wahab , E A Mat Zain , M Abdul Rahman , R
Political connections, fees paid to auditors and auditor independence in Malaysia: evidence from going concern audit opinion
International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 153 - 183 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Abdul Wahab , E A Mat Zain , M James , K
Audit fees in Malaysia: Does corporate governance matter?
Asian Academy of Management Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2011
Accountants Today
Financial reporting: Concern over 'Going concern'? , p. 18 - 21 Posted: 2009-12
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,005
RANK
249,893
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies