Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Short-Term Effects of Managerial Turnover on Performance and Effort: Evidence from the German Bundesliga

41 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2019

Janina Kleinknecht

Ulm University - Department of Mathematics and Economics; affiliation not provided to SSRN

Daniel Würtenberger

Ulm University - Department of Mathematics and Economics

Date Written: July 18, 2019

Abstract

Current research on (managerial) turnover mainly focuses on performance changes and is ambiguous with respect to the results. Yet, the literature agrees that short-term performance changes are induced by opposing effects. Specifically, a turnover leads to an information loss that might influence the staffing of positions negatively and incentives to exhibit effort positively. In order to identify the predominant effect and how it affects overall short-term performance, we employ a new measure of effort and different degrees of information loss. Therefore, we analyse within-season coach turnovers of professional soccer teams in the German Bundesliga, using a generalized version of the synthetic control method. In order to take into account low and high information loss, we differentiate between insider and outsider successors. Insiders might staff positions better while outsiders might be able to elicit higher effort. Our results are in line with these expectations: a turnover leads to an increase in players' effort, but only in case of an outsider coach, both, insider and outsider, improve performance.

Keywords: Effort, Incentives, Information, Performance

JEL Classification: D81, D83, D91, M51

Suggested Citation:

Kleinknecht, Janina and Kleinknecht, Janina and Würtenberger, Daniel, Short-Term Effects of Managerial Turnover on Performance and Effort: Evidence from the German Bundesliga (July 18, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3422019 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3422019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
A Abadie , A Diamond , J Hainmueller
Synthetic control methods for comparative case studies: Estimating the effect of Californias tobacco control program
Journal of the American statistical Association , volume 105 , issue 490 , p. 493 - 505 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Abadie , A Diamond , J Hainmueller
Synth: An R package for synthetic control methods in comparative case studies
Journal of Statistical Software , volume 42 , issue i13 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Abadie , J Gardeazabal
The economic costs of conflict: A case study of the Basque country
American economic review , volume 93 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 132 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Audas , S Dobson , Goddard
The impact of managerial change on team performance and in professional sports
Journal of Economics and Business , volume 54 , p. 633 - 650 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,923
RANK
325,744
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies