Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Breaking the Barrier – On the Use of Joint Audits in the Internal Audit Profession

Journal of International Accounting Research. Forthcoming, 2022, Available at: https://doi.org/10.2308/JIAR-2021-023

48 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2019 Last revised: 6 Sep 2022

Joel Behrend

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Date Written: July 16, 2019

Abstract

With the growing relevance of internal auditing, academics and practitioners emphasize the importance of an adequate and adaptable staffing approach. Because internal audit resources are considered a crucial component of internal audit quality, we investigate why internal auditors perform audits with experts from within or outside the organization. These joint audits augment resources and represent a viable alternative to additional staffing or full outsourcing of the internal audit function (IAF).

Using survey data from three national chapters of the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA), we consider three IAF dimensions (i.e., structure and resources, activities and processes, environmental factors) associated with resource augmentations. Our findings provide evidence that joint audits are used when the IAF is comparatively small and competent, when the IAF focuses on risk and strategy-related tasks, and when the IAF is decentralized. Our findings also suggest that joint audits can strengthen the auditor-auditee relationship.


Keywords: Internal Audit, Internal Audit Function, Internal Audit Resources, Joint Audits

JEL Classification: M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Behrend, Joel and Eulerich, Marc, Breaking the Barrier – On the Use of Joint Audits in the Internal Audit Profession (July 16, 2019). Journal of International Accounting Research. Forthcoming, 2022, Available at: https://doi.org/10.2308/JIAR-2021-023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3422167 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3422167
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
113 References
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Serving two masters: The association between audit committee internal audit oversight and internal audit activities
Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2010
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit fee reductions from internal auditprovided assistance: The incremental impact of internal audit characteristics
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 118 Posted: 2012
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit assistance and external audit timeliness
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
332
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,676
RANK
207,451
2 Citations
113 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies