Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Happens to Trading Volume When the Regulator Bans Voluntary Disclosure?

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2019 Last revised: 22 Jul 2019

Menachem (Meni) Abudy

Bar-Ilan University - Graduate School of Business Administration

Efrat Shust

The Department of Management and Economics, The Open University of Israel

Date Written: July 10, 2019

Abstract

This paper exploits a unique natural experiment in which a regulator limited voluntary disclosure of oil and gas firms. We examine the implications of this disclosure rule on unexplained trading volume and market liquidity. Relying on the theoretical framework of Kim and Verrecchia (1994), the analysis assumes that the rule is an exogenous shock that increased the precision of disclosed information. Based on a sample of current filings, we find indications that on average, after the new regulation came into effect, filings of oil and gas firms generated less unexplained trading volume than they had prior to the regulation. A possible interpretation of these findings is a decline in investor disagreement following the rule. We also find that liquidity around current filings of oil and gas firms increased following the disclosure rule. Moreover, some results indicate that differences in unexplained trading volume associated with the characteristics of the filing firm or of the filing itself prior to the rule were moderated after it came into effect.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, precision of disclosure, unexplained trading volume, investor disagreement, liquidity

JEL Classification: G10, G12, M48

Suggested Citation:

Abudy, Menachem (Meni) and Shust, Efrat, What Happens to Trading Volume When the Regulator Bans Voluntary Disclosure? (July 10, 2019). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3423542
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
M Abudy , A Wohl
Corporate bond trading on a limit order book exchange
Review of Finance , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 1413 - 1440 Posted: 2018
Crossref
A Ahmed , R Schneible
The impact of Regulation Fair Disclosure on investors' prior information quality: Evidence from an analysis of changes in trading volume and stock price reactions to earnings announcements
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 13 , issue 2-3 , p. 282 - 299 Posted: 2007
Crossref
D Amiram , E Owens , O Rozenbaum
Do information releases increase or decrease information asymmetry? New evidence from analyst forecast announcements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 121 - 138 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R K Atiase , L S Bamber
Trading volume reactions to annual accounting earnings announcements: The incremental role of predisclosure information asymmetry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 309 - 329 Posted: 1994
Load more
4 Citations
Henry L. Friedman , John S. Hughes , Beatrice Michaeli
Optimal Reporting When Additional Information Might Arrive
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Volume 69(2-3) · 52 Pages · Posted: 30 Sep 2015 · Last revised: 2 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 566
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Menachem (Meni) Abudy , Ilan Gildin , Yevgeny Mugerman
Shifting Strategies: The Role of Financial Advisors in Adapting Regulatory Changes
27 Pages · Posted: 1 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 54
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Menachem (Meni) Abudy , Efrat Shust
שתיקה שווה זהב? כיצד מגבלות על דיווח משפיעות על חוסר הסכמה בין משקיעיםSilence Is Golden: How Reporting Restrictions Affect Investor Disagreement
תיאוריה ופרקטיקה בניהול, גליון 2, · 10 Pages · Posted: 28 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 23
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yevgeny Mugerman , Ruth Rooz , Doron Kliger
Fusing Identities: The 'I Am the Firm' Phenomenon in Eponymous Enterprises
CORFIN-D-24-00611 · 48 Pages · Posted: 4 Jul 2024 · Downloads: 33
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,088
RANK
677,550
4 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies