Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Independence, Risk Management and Financial Performance of Financial Institutions in Bangladesh

International Journal of Bangladesh Society for Human Resource Management, 3(1). ISSN 2520-4173, 2019

10 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2019 Last revised: 25 Jul 2019

Syed A. Mamun, PhD, FCMA

Universiti Utara Malaysia - School of Accountancy; Credit Rating Information and Services Limited

Mohammad Azhar Hossain

Southeast University (Bangladesh) - School of Business Studies

Date Written: January 23, 2018

Abstract

The main purpose of this study is to examine the relationship of board independence with Risk Management and Financial Performance of listed Financial Institutions in Bangladesh. This study considers 53 financial institutions listed in Dhaka Stock Exchange with the data of year 2014. Results of this research show that the relationships of board independence with risk management and financial performance of financial institutions are insignificant. These findings suggest the possible inefficient role of independent directors of the financial institutions for better risk management and financial performance. The important implications of this study is to enhance the understanding of policy makers, regulators and managers about the role independence directors in improving the performance of financial institutions in Bangladesh which, in turn, assists them to set appropriate rules and regulations to improve the efficiency of independent directors as well as the overall corporate governance practices in Bangladesh.


Keywords: Corporate Governance, Board independence, risk management, financial performance, financial institutions, Bangladesh

Suggested Citation:

Mamun, PhD, FCMA, Syed Abdulla Al and Mamun, PhD, FCMA, Syed Abdulla Al and Hossain, Mohammad Azhar, Board Independence, Risk Management and Financial Performance of Financial Institutions in Bangladesh (January 23, 2018). International Journal of Bangladesh Society for Human Resource Management, 3(1). ISSN 2520-4173, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3424608 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3424608
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
S A A Mamun , H Azhar
Corporate Governance, Risk Management and Firm Performance of Financial Institutions in Bangladesh
International Journal of Bangladesh Society for Human Resource Management , volume 2 , issue 1 Posted: 2019
R R Bhatt , S Bhattacharya
Do Board Characteristics Impact Firm Performance? An Agency and Resource Dependency Theory Perspective
Asia-Pacific Journal of Management Research and Innovation , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 274 - 287 Posted: 2015
Crossref
H M Choi , W Sul , S K Min
Foreign board membership and firm value in Korea
Management Decision , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 233 Posted: 2012
V Krivogorsky
Ownership, board structure, and performance in continental Europe
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 41 , issue 2 , p. 176 - 197 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
768
RANK
662,989
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies