Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cracks in the Boards: The Opportunity Cost of Homogeneous Boards of Directors

34 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2019

Helene Maghin

KU Leuven - Department of Economics; SciencesPo - LIEPP - Laboratory for Interdisciplinary Evaluation of Public Policies; Université Paris VI Pierre et Marie Curie - College de France

Date Written: July 24, 2019

Abstract

Boards of directors' composition is closely related to firm inputs, output and financial returns. This paper uses the announcement and implementation of quotas in France as a quasi-experiment to test the effect of a shock on their composition. It moves beyond previous studies by establishing a clear causal link between governance change and firm total factor productivity (TFP) growth. It further contributes to the literature by disentangling between adjustment costs and benefits from new board members. The initial decline followed by a rise of the growth rate of TFP above pre-quota levels points to the positive impact of constrained change. It reflects the opportunity cost of homogeneous boards of directors for firms and the economy at large.

Keywords: gender, productivity

Suggested Citation:

Maghin, Helene, Cracks in the Boards: The Opportunity Cost of Homogeneous Boards of Directors (July 24, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3426192
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
K R Ahern , A K Dittmar
The Changing of the Boards: The Impact on Firm Valuation of Mandated Female Board Representation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Andreoni , L Vesterlund
Which is the Fair Sex? Gender Differences in Altruism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 116 , p. 293 - 312 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J Apesteguia , G Azmat , N Iriberri
The Impact of Gender Composition on Team Performance and Decision Making: Evidence from the Field
Management Science , volume 58 , p. 78 - 93 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,043
RANK
545,411
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies