Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sharia Supervisory Boards, Governance Structures and Operational Risk Disclosures: Evidence from Islamic Banks in MENA Countries

Global Finance Journal, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2019

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Hussein A. Abdou

Northumbria University; Department of Management, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Chris Pyke

University of Central Lancashire - Lancashire School of Business and Enterprise

Date Written: July 27, 2019

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of Sharia supervisory board (SSB) and governance structures on the extent of operational risk disclosures (ORDs), using a sample of 63 Islamic banks from 10 (i.e., Bahrain, Egypt, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria, and the UAE) countries in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region for the fiscal years 2006 to 2013. Drawing on Sharia compliance, Islamic banking and corporate governance literature, our findings are as follows. We find that SSB, block ownership, board independence, and country-level governance quality are statistically significant and positively associated with ORDs. Our results are robust when controlling for several bank- and country-level variables. Our study has implications for policy-makers and regulators in the MENA region with respect to the development and implementation of SSB and governance mechanisms that can improve operational risk disclosures. Finally, the findings highlight the need to enhance current understanding of SSB structures and governance mechanisms that can best help Islamic banks towards engaging in effective compliance with recent governance and accounting reforms.

Keywords: Operational Risk Disclosure; Sharia supervisory board; Corporate Governance; Country Governance; Islamic Banks; MENA countries

Suggested Citation:

Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Ntim, Collins G. and Abdou, Hussein A. and Pyke, Chris, Sharia Supervisory Boards, Governance Structures and Operational Risk Disclosures: Evidence from Islamic Banks in MENA Countries (July 27, 2019). Global Finance Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3427665
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
A Abdallah , M K Hassan , P L Mcclelland
Islamic financial institutions, corporate governance, and corporate risk disclosure in Gulf Cooperation Council countries
Journal of Multinational Financial Management , volume 31 , p. 63 - 82 Posted: 2015
Crossref
H A Abdou , S Mitra , J Fry , A A Elamer
Would two-stage scoring models alleviate bank exposure to bad debt?
Expert Systems with Applications , volume 128 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2019
Crossref
W Abdullah , M Percy , J Stewart
Determinants of voluntary corporate governance disclosure: Evidence from Islamic banks in the Southeast Asian and the Gulf Cooperation Council regions
Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 262 - 279 Posted: 2015
Crossref
P Abedifar , P Molyneux , A Tarazi
Risk in Islamic banking
Review of Finance , volume 17 , issue 6 , p. 2035 - 2096 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,245
RANK
534,717
8 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies