Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO-CFO Relative Optimism and Firm Mergers and Acquisitions

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3428760

41 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2019

Wei Shi

University of Miami - Department of Management; affiliation not provided to SSRN

Guoli Chen

INSEAD - Singapore

Date Written: May 1, 2019

Abstract

Our paper examines two critical members in the top management “subteam” – CEO and CFO – in firms’ merger and acquisition (M&A) decision. We propose a concept of CEO-CFO relative optimism, measured by CEO’s optimism relative to CFO’s pessimism, to capture the subteam’s collective cognitive schema in attentional focus and information processing, and study their conjoined influence on corporate decisions. We posit that firms with high CEO-CFO relative optimism will undertake more acquisitions than firms with low CEO-CFO relative optimism because optimistic CEOs are less attentive to risk associated with acquisitions in the absence of CFOs high in pessimism. In addition, the role of CEO-CFO relative optimism in affecting M&A intensity is more pronounced when CFOs are board members at focal firms and firms face a dynamic external environment, because CFO’s opinions are more salient in these situations. Furthermore, acquisitions by firms with high CEO-CFO relative optimism will have a more negative influence on firm operating performance than those with low CEO-CFO relative optimism. Using a sample of U.S. public firms over the period of 2002-2013, we find empirical support for our arguments.

Keywords: CEO-CFO relative optimism, M&As, Performance implications

JEL Classification: M1, M12

Suggested Citation:

Shi, Wei and Chen, Guoli, CEO-CFO Relative Optimism and Firm Mergers and Acquisitions (May 1, 2019). University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3428760, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3428760 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3428760
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
S Akhtar
Someday...'' and ''If only...'' fantasies: Pathological optimism and inordinate nostalgia as related forms of idealization
Journal of the American Psychoanalytic Association , volume 44 , p. 723 - 753 Posted: 1996
Crossref
P ; P D Allison , R P Waterman
Fixed Effects Regression Methods for Longitudinal Data Using SAS
Sociological Methodology , volume 32 , p. 247 - 265 Posted: 2002
J Almandoz , A Tilcsik
When experts become liabilities: Domain experts on boards and organizational failure
Academy of Management Journal , volume 59 , p. 1124 - 1149 Posted: 2016
Crossref
D Altman
The taming of the finance officers
The New York Times , p. 10 - 11 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
589
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,991
RANK
105,636
2 Citations
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies