Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Large blockholders and stock price crash risk: An international study

Global Finance Journal, Vol. 55, 2023

50 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2019 Last revised: 13 Dec 2022

Nicolas Eugster

University of Queensland - Business School

Jenny Wang

University of Queensland, Business School, Students

Date Written: December 2022

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between large blockholders and stock price crash risk across 44 countries. Based on the results, firms held by large blockholders have a lower firm-specific crash risk than widely held firms. In this case, the higher the proportion of voting rights, the lower the risk. In addition, the negative association is more pronounced in firms undertaking overinvestment activities. The findings also suggest that large shareholders serve as monitors in firms, reducing agency costs and leading to lower stock price crash risk. Meanwhile, this mitigating effect is stronger in firms held by a family, another widely held corporation, and the state. Conversely, the results show no such effect in firms held by a large institutional investor. Finally, the relationship is more pronounced in developed countries and in English common law and German civil law countries, thus highlighting the role of large blockholders as a complementary governance mechanism, rather than a substitutive one.

Keywords: Stock price crash risk, Large blockholders, Ownership structure, Agency costs, Monitoring

JEL Classification: G14, G30, G32, M40

Suggested Citation:

Eugster, Nicolas and Wang, Jenny, Large blockholders and stock price crash risk: An international study (December 2022). Global Finance Journal, Vol. 55, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3428929 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3428929
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
R V Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of good governance
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 17 , p. 376 - 387 Posted: 2009
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
A Ali , T. -Y Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
H An , T Zhang
Stock price synchronicity, crash risk, and institutional investors
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 21 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,489
RANK
319,999
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies