Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bolstering Family Control: Evidence from Loyalty Shares

European Corporate Governance Institute - Finance Working Paper No. 619/2019

51 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2019 Last revised: 1 May 2020

Emanuele Bajo

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Massimiliano Barbi

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Marco Bigelli

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Ettore Croci

Catholic University of the Sacred Heart of Milan

Date Written: July 1, 2019

Abstract

We study the introduction of a new control-enhancing mechanism in Italy, a country characterized
by family-controlled firms and growing shareholders’ protection by institutional
investors. Since 2014, Italian firms have been able to adopt loyalty shares, which allow
a double voting right if shares are continuously held for at least two years. We find that
about 20 percent of listed firms have introduced loyalty shares, and family-controlled firms
are the most likely adopters. Loyalty shares neither anticipate acquisitions, nor equity
issues by the adopting firm. Instead, they allow controlling shareholders to reduce their
equity stake without losing control. We report no evidence of an adverse wealth effect
both at the adoption and in the years following it. Institutional investors oppose the introduction
of loyalty shares, yet they do not reduce their holdings in adopting firms. Overall,
our evidence suggests that bolstering family control is the main effect of the introduction
of loyalty shares.

Keywords: Loyalty shares, Family firms, Long-term shareholders; Control-enhancing mechanisms

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Bajo, Emanuele and Barbi, Massimiliano and Bigelli, Marco and Croci, Ettore, Bolstering Family Control: Evidence from Loyalty Shares (July 1, 2019). European Corporate Governance Institute - Finance Working Paper No. 619/2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3428887 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3428887
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
One share-one vote: The empirical evidence
Review of Finance , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 91 Posted: 2008
Crossref
V Agarwal , R Vashishtha , M Venkatachalam
Mutual fund transparency and corporate myopia
Review of Financial Studies , volume 31 , issue 5 , p. 1966 - 2003 Posted: 2018
Crossref
J Asker , J Farre-Mensa , A Ljungqvist
Corporate investment and stock market listing: A puzzle?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 342 - 390 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R Barontini , L Caprio
The effect of family control on firm value and performance: Evidence from continental Europe
European Financial Management , volume 12 , issue 5 , p. 689 - 723 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
407
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,467
RANK
165,214
2 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies