Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Tale of Two Intermediaries: Investment Banker–Auditor Social Ties and IPO Quality

53 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2019 Last revised: 15 Jun 2022

Xianjie He

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - School of Accountancy

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Shuwei Sun

Shanghai University of International Business and Economics - School of Accountancy

Donghui Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Date Written: June 1, 2019

Abstract

Firms undertaking an initial public offering (IPO) appoint investment bankers and auditors to certify information disclosed to investors. We find that social connections significantly increase the likelihood that the bankers and auditors become involved in the same IPO deal. Although some theory and evidence suggests that information transferred via social networks may en-hance economic agents’ performance, other research implies that such links may admit bias in-to auditor judgment or impair their independence. Empirically, we find that IPO firms report higher discretionary accruals when bankers and auditors are socially connected. We also doc-ument that banker–auditor social ties are associated with lower earnings credibility, more fre-quent post-IPO misstatements, worse post-IPO performance, and less efficient use of the IPO proceeds. However, auditors benefit from social connections with bankers by attracting higher fee premiums and securing more future IPO-audit businesses.

Keywords: social ties, auditors, investment bankers, capital allocation

Suggested Citation:

He, Xianjie and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Sun, Shuwei and Wu, Donghui, A Tale of Two Intermediaries: Investment Banker–Auditor Social Ties and IPO Quality (June 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3428007 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3428007
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
V Atanasov , B Black
Shock-based causal inference in corporate finance and accounting research
Critical Finance Review , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 304 Posted: 2016
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality at initial public offerings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 324 - 349 Posted: 2008
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
518
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,738
RANK
124,488
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies