Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Moving Beyond Histogram Bin Frequencies as Prima Facie Evidence of Earnings Management (Or a Discussion of 'Understanding the 'Numbers Game'')

Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 3429969

15 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2019

Joseph Gerakos

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College

Date Written: July 31, 2019

Abstract

Bird, Karolyi, and Ruchti (2019) estimate a structural model of earnings management in the setting of meeting-or-beating the analyst consensus forecast. I provide an overview of their methods and findings, and then discuss the assumptions, benefits, and limitations of their approach.

Keywords: earnings management, analyst forecasts, meet-or-beat, earnings discontinuity

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gerakos, Joseph, Moving Beyond Histogram Bin Frequencies as Prima Facie Evidence of Earnings Management (Or a Discussion of 'Understanding the 'Numbers Game'') (July 31, 2019). Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 3429969, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3429969 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3429969
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,399
RANK
276,216
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies