Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Financial Reporting and Disclosure on Corporate Investment: A Review

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 5616-18

83 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2020 Last revised: 10 Aug 2020

Sugata Roychowdhury

Northwestern University Kellogg School of Management

Nemit Shroff

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Rodrigo S. Verdi

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: July 30, 2019

Abstract

A fundamental question in accounting is whether and to what extent financial reporting facilitates the allocation of capital to the right investment projects. Over the last two decades, a large and growing body of literature has contributed to our understanding of whether and why financial reporting affects investment decision-making. We review the empirical literature on this topic, provide a framework to organize this literature, and highlight opportunities for future research.

Keywords: financial accounting, disclosure, real effects, investment, M&A, capital budgeting, agency frictions

JEL Classification: D82, M4, M41, G31

Suggested Citation:

Roychowdhury, Sugata and Shroff, Nemit and Verdi, Rodrigo S., The Effects of Financial Reporting and Disclosure on Corporate Investment: A Review (July 30, 2019). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 5616-18, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3429337
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,653
RANK
9,091
41 Citations
226 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

MIT Sloan School of Management Working Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies