Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Annual Report Narratives and the Cost of Equity Capital: U.K. Evidence of a U-Shaped Relation

Forthcoming, European Accounting Review

52 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2019 Last revised: 16 Dec 2019

Vasiliki E. Athanasakou

Saint Mary's University, Canada - Sobey School of Business

Florian Eugster

University of St. Gallen - Institute of Accounting, Control and Auditing; Swiss Finance Institute

Thomas Schleicher

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Martin Walker

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Date Written: December 15, 2019

Abstract

We hypothesise and test for a U-shaped relation between the cost of equity capital and the level of disclosure in annual report narratives. Using a computer-generated word-count-based index of the level of disclosure in U.K. annual report narratives, we document a negative relation with the cost of equity capital at low levels of disclosure, and a positive relation at higher levels of disclosure, together implying the presence of an optimal level of disclosure. We interpret the positive relation at higher levels of disclosure as evidence of uninformative clutter increasing the cost of equity capital. Additional analyses indicate the presence of both firm-level learning and regulatory corporate reporting initiatives as factors shaping adjustments towards optimum levels of disclosure.

Keywords: Clutter, Cost of Equity Capital, Disclosure Optimum, Learning Effects, Narratives, U-Shaped Relation

JEL Classification: C33, C36, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Athanasakou, Vasiliki E. and Eugster, Florian and Schleicher, Thomas and Walker, Martin, Annual Report Narratives and the Cost of Equity Capital: U.K. Evidence of a U-Shaped Relation (December 15, 2019). Forthcoming, European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3429811 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3429811
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
V Athanasakou , K Hussainey
The perceived credibility of forward-looking performance disclosures
Accounting and Business Research , volume 44 , issue 3 , p. 227 - 259 Posted: 2014
Crossref
V Athanasakou , M El-Haj , P Rayson , M Walker , S Young
Annual Report Commentary on the Value Creation Process Posted: 2019
A Barnett , K Leoffler
Readability of accounting and auditing messages
Journal of Business Communication , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 49 - 59 Posted: 1979
Crossref
C B Barry , S J Brown
Differential information and the small firm effect
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 283 - 295 Posted: 1984
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,682
RANK
441,693
2 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies