Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Goodwill Valuations Certified by Independent Experts: Bigger and Cleaner Impairments?

38 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2019

Miles B. Gietzmann

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Ye Wang

School of Banking and Finance, University of International Business and Economics

Date Written: July 31, 2019

Abstract

If firms disclose the use of independent valuation experts to assess the magnitude of goodwill impairments should investors rationally condition their values on that disclosure? This research shows that firms that disclose use of an independent valuation expert are more likely to report a higher impairment charge in an impairment year, but critically after controlling for other determinants we show disclosing firms are less likely to have impairments in following years.Thus, when use of an independent expert is disclosed, while it is rational for investors to downgrade firm value on the basis of the disclosed (higher) impairment charge in that year, there is simultaneously a reduced need to add an additional discount to anticipate further (strategically) delayed impairment charges. That is investors’ need to consider the likely multi-period time series properties of impairments and firms may benefit from using an expert if investors significantly reduce the discount applied in anticipation of future related impairments.

Keywords: goodwill impairment, independent experts

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Gietzmann, Miles B. and Wang, Ye, Goodwill Valuations Certified by Independent Experts: Bigger and Cleaner Impairments? (July 31, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3429847 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3429847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
***
Crossref
***
***
***
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,117
RANK
441,693
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies