Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Ownership and Corporate Governance of Public Companies in China

Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2019

Lin Guo

Suffolk University - Sawyer Business School

Stefan Platikanov

Citizens Financial Group

Date Written: July 1, 2019

Abstract

Using information on the identity and percentage ownership of the ten largest shareholders in Chinese nonfinancial firms during the period of 1999–2010, we examine institutional investors' preferences for specific firm characteristics and investigate how institutional ownership affects firm value. We classify institutional investors under two dimensions: (1) pressure-sensitive (or grey) institutions versus pressure-insensitive (or independent) institutions, and (2) state-owned versus privately-owned institutions. We find that institutional ownership is positively associated with company Tobin's Q, and the effect is mainly driven by the ownership of independent institutions, rather than driven by the ownership of privately-owned institutions. Moreover, this positive relation gets stronger after 2005, when significant progress has been made in strengthening the legal and institutional foundation of the capital markets in China. In contrast, ownership by grey institutions is in general negatively associated with firm performance, manifesting the value-destructive consequences of the conflicts of interest these investors cultivate. The significant change after 2005 suggests that the enhanced external legal and corporate governance environment is critical for independent institutions' monitoring role to strengthen.

Keywords: Institutional investors, Corporate governance, Firm value, China, Monitoring, Ownership

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Lin and Platikanov, Stefan, Institutional Ownership and Corporate Governance of Public Companies in China (July 1, 2019). Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3430748
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
989
RANK
495,993
3 Citations
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies