Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Is Corporate Governance Research Relevant to Accounting? Evidence from JAR 2002–2018

24 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2019

Yonca Ertimur

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Fabrizio Ferri

University of Miami - Miami Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute

Date Written: July 3, 2019

Abstract

In this review, we focus on corporate governance-related research published in the Journal of Accounting Research (JAR) over the 2002-2018 period. Our main objective is not to provide an in-depth critical review of these papers, but rather to identify when and why corporate governance studies are relevant to accounting research and thus of interest to accounting journals – a question we often struggle with in our roles as authors, editors and reviewers. After a brief review of studies on executive pay (traditionally considered to be part of accounting research), we offer the following taxonomy for the rest of governance studies: (i) studies where a governance mechanism is the central determinant and an accounting construct is the outcome of interest (“governance-as-determinant” studies); (ii) studies where a governance “shock” is used to address an accounting question (“governance-as-shock” studies); (iii) studies where the governance mechanism is the construct of interest, but the mechanism itself is an accounting one (e.g. the audit committee); and, (iv) studies where a (non-accounting) governance mechanism is the construct of interest and the research question is fundamentally a governance question (“pure governance studies”). The relevance of studies that fall in the last sub-group to accounting research is not as obvious. Thus, we devote special attention to these papers, trying to identify why they were appealing to an accounting journal. We hope our review provides editors and reviewers at JAR and other accounting journals with a framework to assess the relevance of governance studies to accounting research, while also helping authors in successfully framing such studies.

Keywords: corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Ertimur, Yonca and Ferri, Fabrizio, When Is Corporate Governance Research Relevant to Accounting? Evidence from JAR 2002–2018 (July 3, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3430121 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3430121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
J K.; L Aier , Chen
And M Pevzner
Debtholders' Demand for Conservatism: Evidence from Changes in Directors' Fiduciary Duties
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , p. 993 - 1027 Posted: 2014
Bipin B. Ajinkya , Sanjeev Bhojraj , Partha Sengupta
The Governance Role of Institutional Investors and Outsider Directors on the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
14th Annual Conference on Financial Economics and Accounting (FEA) Pages: 44 Posted: 27 Jan 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
And P Sengupta
The Association between outside Directors, Institutional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Load more
2 Citations
Michael Iselin , Scott Liao , Haiwen (Helen) Zhang
Common Mutual Fund Ownership and Systemic Risk
Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3791743 · 65 Pages · Posted: 22 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 219
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Chris S. Armstrong , John Kepler , Shawn Shi , David Tsui
Supply Constraints and Directors’ Reputational Incentives
47 Pages · Posted: 26 Jun 2017 · Last revised: 2 Jul 2021 · Downloads: 639
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
393
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,133
RANK
172,005
2 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies