Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance, SSB Strength and the Use of Internal Audit Function by Islamic Banks: Evidence from Sudan

Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business Research (Emerald), Forthcoming

Posted: 5 Aug 2019

Saed Sulub

Universiti Malaysia Terengganu

Zalailah Salleh

Universiti Malaysia Terengganu (UMT)

Hafiza Aishah Hashim

Universiti Malaysia Terengganu (UMT)

Date Written: January 21, 2018

Abstract

Purpose: The paper aims to identify the effects of some Corporate Governance (CG) mechanisms and Shariah Supervisory Board (SSB) strength on the voluntary use of Internal Audit Function (IAF) by Islamic banks in Sudan.

Design/Methodology/Approach: Based on Agency and Stakeholder theories, the paper hypothesizes that IAF is likely used by Islamic banks with strong CG and Shariah Governance systems. In order to test these hypotheses, we examine the annual reports of fourteen Sudanese banks for a period of five years following the global financial crisis in 2008, using Logistic Regression Analysis.

Findings: The paper found that IAF is likely used by Islamic banks with higher CG Disclosure (CGD) and strong SSB. While the findings showed that the audit committee and IAF are likely used as substitutes, the paper also indicated that there is a negative association between levels of Unrestricted Investment Account Holders’ (UIAH) ownership and the use of IAF. However, the evidence of this study did not find any impact for the board of directors’ strength on the use of IAF.

Research Limitations/Implications: There may be better measures for some variables in the study model. Additionally, the restriction of the study sample to Sudanese banks may limit the generalization of the results. Therefore, future studies may refine the model and expand the sample to Islamic banks in other countries.

Practical Implications: The paper highlights the importance of IAF for Shariah governance in Islamic banks. Moreover, the insignificant association between the use of IAF and the strength of board of directors has important implications for board’s effectiveness in Islamic banks.

Originality/value: This is the first study to investigate the factors that associate with the use of IAF by Islamic banks.


Keywords: Corporate Governance, Shariah, SSB, Internal Audit Function, Islamic Banks

JEL Classification: G20, G28, G30, G38

Suggested Citation:

Sulub, Saed and Salleh, Zalailah and Hashim, Hafiza, Corporate Governance, SSB Strength and the Use of Internal Audit Function by Islamic Banks: Evidence from Sudan (January 21, 2018). Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business Research (Emerald), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3430331
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
600
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies