Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Moderating Effect of Enterprise Risk Management on the Relationship Between Board Structures and Corporate Performance

International Journal of Entrepreneurship and Management Practices, Volume: 2 Issues: 6, June, 2019 pp.01-15

15 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2019

Saddam Shatnawi

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM) - Faculty of Economics and Muamalat

Mustafa Hanefah

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM) - Faculty of Economics and Muamalat

Dr. Monther Eldaia

Al-Aqsa University

Date Written: August 1, 2019

Abstract

Risk encroachment into Corporate Governance (CG) remains a continuous process that required an efficient and long-term solution. Using enterprise risk management (ERM) as a moderating variable on the relationship between board structures and corporate performance is remains an area unexploited in CG research. This relationship can effectively measure by the extent of ERM interactions between board structures and corporate performance. Despite various studies on CG mechanisms, firm performance, ERM implementation level, and gender diversity, the empirical results appeared inconclusive and the findings are inconsistent. None of the studies have addressed the role play by ERM as a moderator between director ownership, the board size, board independence, the total number of women on the board, number of Muslim directors on the board, and firm performance. It is demonstrated that the ERM has the potential to moderate between the different board structures and corporate performance, and this moderation has never been reported in the literature. It is expected that this ERM moderation may considerably improve corporate performance by determining the strength or weakness of the relationship between board structures and firm performance. Thus, this paper, with regards to available literature, conceptualized that ‘ERM’ moderates the relationship between Board Size, Board Independence, Director Ownership, Total Women in the Board, Muslim directors on the Board, and corporate performance.

Keywords: Board Structures, Corporate Performance, ERM, Moderating, Relationship

Suggested Citation:

Shatnawi, Saddam and Hanefah, Mustafa and Eldaia, Dr. Monther, Moderating Effect of Enterprise Risk Management on the Relationship Between Board Structures and Corporate Performance (August 1, 2019). International Journal of Entrepreneurship and Management Practices, Volume: 2 Issues: 6, June, 2019 pp.01-15, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3430441 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3430441
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
A Bashir , M Asad
Moderating Effect of Leverage on the Relationship between Board Size, Board Meetings, and Performance: A Study on Textile Sector of Pakistan
American Scientific Research Journal for Engineering , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 19 - 29 Posted: 2018
F Battaglia , F Fiordelisi , O Ricci
Enterprise Risk Management and Bank Performance: Evidence from Eastern Europe during the Financial Crisis
Risk Management in Emerging Markets: Issues, Framework, and Modeling , p. 295 - 334 Posted: 2016
Crossref
A N Berger , B Imbierowicz , C Rauch
The roles of corporate governance in bank failures during the recent financial crisis
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking , volume 48 , issue 4 , p. 729 - 770 Posted: 2016
Crossref
S Bhagat , B Bolton
Director ownership, governance, and performance
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 105 - 135 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
756
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,440
RANK
76,611
3 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies