Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance-Based Vesting Compensation and Debt Contracting

72 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2019 Last revised: 20 Oct 2019

Tao-Hsien Dolly King

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Charlotte - Department of Finance

Chen Shen

Ontario Tech University

Date Written: July 31, 2019

Abstract

This paper examines whether the risk-taking incentives induced by performance-based vesting (p-v) compensation influence bank loan contracting and credit ratings. Consistent with our risk-shifting hypothesis, we find that the p-v based compensation, as measured by the proportion of grant date fair value of p-v based compensation to total compensation, significantly increases loan spreads and encourages more no price protection such as performance pricing and secured by collateral. We also find that p-v based compensation increases loan maturity while reduces the covenant strictness as a trade-off. Next, we subcategorize p-v based compensation by its performance type, instrument use, and performance metric. Consistent with previous literature, we find that the loan spread is negatively (positively) associated with accounting (stock price)-based compensation. We also find a tradeoff effect between the price- and non-price features of bank loan contracts such as performance pricing and restrictive covenants, as the positive effect of incentives induced by p-v based compensation on the cost of bank loans is offset by more restrictive features in loan contracts. Next, we perform the analysis using the Chief Financial Officer (CFO)’s p-v compensation and obtain the similar results. Last, we perform the analysis to determine the effects of p-v based compensation on firms’ credit rating. We find the incentive induced by p-v based compensation carry out to the credit rating market by reducing the firm’s credit rating.

Keywords: performance-based vesting compensation, bank loans, cost of debt, executive compensation, CEOs, risk-taking

JEL Classification: M52, M55, J33, G34, G32, G13, M41

Suggested Citation:

King, Tao-Hsien Dolly and Shen, Chen, Performance-Based Vesting Compensation and Debt Contracting (July 31, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3430830 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3430830
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Ln
Ln
*** -
Crossref
***
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,535
RANK
413,842
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies