Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Influences on CSR Practices Within Banks in an Emerging Economy: Do Banks Merely Comply?

Critical Perspectives on Accouting, 71: 1-20

56 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2019 Last revised: 12 Apr 2021

Habib Khan

University of Canberra

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Raechel Johns

Independent

Date Written: November 10, 2020

Abstract

Bangladesh has enjoyed remarkable economic growth for the last two decades primarily driven by an export-led development strategy, foreign remittances and greater empowerment of women. However, parallel to this, the socio-economic conditions (e.g., widespread poverty, poor accountability and inequality), climate change risks and environmental pollution result in the nation’s vulnerability. Over more than two decades, the practice of voluntary corporate social responsibility (CSR) and its reporting by firms in Bangladesh has developed and increased, but the need for regulatory guidelines for CSR practices continues. We investigate whether firms in Bangladesh embrace CSR practices to follow the regulatory guidelines or if they develop CSR practices opportunistically and politically. We provide evidence from 21 semi-structured interviews with managers of banks in Bangladesh and from published sources. The findings indicate that CSR activities are prompted by: CSR regulations by the central bank (Bangladesh Bank); congruency between banks’ goals and the regulator; support offered by the central bank; and the quest to maintain effective relationships with other stakeholders, such as the government and political leaders. The findings also show that CSR practices become decoupled from regulatory expectations and that managers ‘dress up’ reported information by bypassing regulatory guidelines when responding to demands from powerful stakeholders, such as board members and political elites. Banks do not respond aggressively to CSR regulation, for example, with challenges and attack-type responses, as these responses are culturally unacceptable. The findings imply that decoupling occurs, and that it is unlikely that regulation will minimize this behaviour because there is a lack of political will, an absence of accountability and there appears to be a lack of substantive commitment ethical conduct amongst powerful board members. Despite regulatory efforts, we find that exploitative practices continue in line with cultural norms in the banking environment in Bangladesh.

Keywords: Strategic responses; Institutional influences; CSR regulations; CSR practices; Banks; Bangladesh

JEL Classification: M14; M41

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Habib and Bose, Sudipta and Johns, Raechel, Regulatory Influences on CSR Practices Within Banks in an Emerging Economy: Do Banks Merely Comply? (November 10, 2020). Critical Perspectives on Accouting, 71: 1-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3431605
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
M A Abernethy , W F Chua
A field study of control system "redesign": the impact of institutional processes on strategic choice
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 569 - 606 Posted: 1996
Crossref
C A Adams
The ethical, social and environmental reporting-performance portrayal gap
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 17 , issue 5 , p. 731 - 757 Posted: 2004
Crossref
C A Adams , C Larrinaga-González
Engaging with organisations in pursuit of improved social and environmental accountability and performance
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 333 - 355 Posted: 2007
Crossref
S Ahmed
Institution matter for development: Role of banking sector Posted: 2010-01
Load more
3 Citations
Afzalur Rashid , Syed Shams , Sudipta Bose , Habib Khan
CEO Power and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Disclosure: Does Stakeholder Influence Matter?
Managerial Auditing Journal, 35(9):1279-1312 · 49 Pages · Posted: 25 Sep 2020 · Last revised: 4 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 364
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Habib Khan , Sudipta Bose , Abu Taher Mollik , Harun Harun
"Green Washing" or "Authentic Effort"? An Empirical Investigation of the Quality of Sustainability Reporting by Banks
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, https://doi.org/10.1108/AAAJ-01-2018-3330 · 39 Pages · Posted: 1 Dec 2020 · Last revised: 4 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 476
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sudipta Bose , Habib Khan , Reza M. Monem
Does Green Banking Performance Pay Off? Evidence from a Unique Regulatory Setting in Bangladesh
Corporate Governance - An International Review, https://doi.org/10.1111/corg.12349 · 51 Pages · Posted: 1 Dec 2020 · Last revised: 4 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 357
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,404
RANK
490,025
3 Citations
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies