Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Related Party Transactions and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence From China

International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2019 Last revised: 13 Jul 2020

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Haiyan Jiang

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance; University of Waikato - Management School

Donghua Zhou

Jiangxi University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: July 13, 2020

Abstract

This paper investigates the association between related party transactions (RPTs) and stock price crash risk in China. Our investigation is motivated by controversy in the RPT-literature over whether RPTs are value-enhancing or opportunistic. Through the lens of stock price crash risk, we reveal that RPTs may violate the arm's length assumption of regular market-based transactions, impairing the representational faithfulness and verifiability of accounting data and, consequently, increasing the risk of future price crash. Importantly, we find that this detrimental economic consequence of RPTs is driven by abnormal RPTs that are opportunistic in nature. Our analyses also extend to operating RPTs, related party loans, and two types of opportunistic RPTs, including tunneling and propping. In addition, the positive association between RPTs and stock price crash risk is not mediated by financial reporting quality, suggesting that the risk factors associated with RPTs are operational. Our main results remain robust to a series of tests done to address the potential endogeneity between RPTs and stock price crash risk.

Keywords: related party transactions, stock price crash risk, propping, tunneling, earnings management

Suggested Citation:

Habib, Ahsan and Jiang, Haiyan and Zhou, Donghua, Related Party Transactions and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence From China (July 13, 2020). International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3431821
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Shenglan Chen , Hui Ma , Qiang Wu , Hao Zhang
Common Institutional Ownership and Stock Price Crash Risk
51 Pages · Posted: 9 Oct 2023 · Last revised: 26 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 622
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,461
RANK
373,551
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies