Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Boards and Bond Contract Terms

64 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2019 Last revised: 21 Apr 2023

Hami Amiraslani

ESMT European School of Management and Technology

Date Written: April 21, 2023

Abstract

I use the NYSE and NASD board independence reforms to examine the relation between board structure and the contract terms of new bond issues. Using a difference-in-differences design, I find that noncompliant firms that transition to independent boards experience reductions in payout, financing, investment, and event risk covenants and attract higher credit ratings on their new bond issues. These contracting benefits are not offset by higher at-issue credit spreads. I further show that the effects of the reforms are concentrated in Delaware, where state law governing directors’ fiduciary duties limits their incentives to favor equity over debt. I also find that these incentives dominate co-opted directors’ allegiance to the CEO, to the extent that following the reforms, covenants of bonds issued by Delaware firms with co-opted boards decrease, whereas those of non-Delaware firms increase. These contracting outcomes are not influenced by shareholder control, and are stronger when firms are more vulnerable to takeovers and have fewer distracted directors. Collectively, my findings are consistent with the disciplining effect of independent boards on entrenched managers and suggest that when directors have legal incentives to consider the interests of creditors, increased oversight of managers through board independence reforms can reduce bondholders’ agency costs.

Keywords: Bond Covenants, Corporate Boards, Corporate Governance, Cost of Debt, Debt Contracting, Entrenchment, Fiduciary Duties, Regulation

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Amiraslani, Hami, Corporate Boards and Bond Contract Terms (April 21, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3431997 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3431997
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
R Adams , B Hermalin , M Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
R Anderson , S Mansi , D Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
C Armstrong , J Core , W Guay
Do independent directors cause improvements in firm transparency?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 113 , issue 3 , p. 383 - 403 Posted: 2014
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , issue 1-2 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
336
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,844
RANK
204,782
1 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies