Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Negative Externalities of Financial Reporting Frequency: Peer Reporting Choice and the Loss of Investor Attention

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3433828

58 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2019 Last revised: 22 Dec 2019

Emmanuel T. De George

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Minh Phan

Columbia University; Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Robert Stoumbos

ESSEC Business School

Date Written: August 5, 2019

Abstract

This study examines whether one firm’s choice of reporting frequency generates negative externalities for other firms. We find that firms lose investor attention when more of their peers report quarterly instead of semi-annually, and such loss of attention is associated with a decrease in market value and market liquidity. Thus, firms experience negative externalities when their peers report quarterly. We find that the loss of attention is robust to alternative specifications, settings, and additional controls that capture other disclosures by peers. Finally, we test for, but fail to find, evidence of positive externalities in the form of information spillovers. Overall our evidence suggests that firms are negatively impacted when their peers choose to adopt a higher reporting frequency.

Keywords: Financial Reporting Frequency, Investor Attention, Spillovers

JEL Classification: G10, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

De George, Emmanuel T. and Phan, Minh and Phan, Minh and Stoumbos, Robert, Negative Externalities of Financial Reporting Frequency: Peer Reporting Choice and the Loss of Investor Attention (August 5, 2019). University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3433828, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3433828 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3433828
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of financial markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
S Arif , E T De George
The dark side of low financial reporting frequency: Investors reliance on alternative sources of earnings news and excessive information spillovers Posted: 2019
R K Atiase , H Li , S Supattarakul , S Tse
Market reaction to multiple contemporaneous earnings signals: Earnings announcements and future earnings guidance
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 497 - 525 Posted: 2005
Crossref
B Badertscher , N Shroff , H D White
Externalities of public firm presence: Evidence from private firms' investment decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
659
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,276
RANK
91,487
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies