Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessment of Compliance With OHADA Uniform Accounting Act by Public Limited Companies

Accounting and Finance Research Vol. 5, No. 3; 2016

11 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2019

Michael Forzeh Fossung

Fomic Polytechnic University; University of Buea

Date Written: June 7, 2016

Abstract

Francophone African countries have made a tremendous effort in harmonising domestic standards and reporting with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Moving from two distinct OCAM streams to two OHADA streams (effective 1985) and now one OHADA Uniform Accounting Act embodying 17 member countries (effective 2001) is a milestone towards harmonisation of reporting practice both domestically and internationally. This empirical study examines whether the effort of harmonisation, especially after the 2001 standards has resulted in the successful convergence of firms' accounting practices by analysing public limited liability companies' compliance with the OHADA Uniform Accounting Act and if such compliance has improved over time. The study has been carried out using the 2008 and 2009 annual reports of three public limited companies in the OHADA zone that translate their financial statements into IFRS. The ranks of closeness and compliance index have been used to analyse data. Findings reveal a relatively high level of compliance with the accounting regulation by sampling limited liability companies. The results also give an indication of harmonisation in accounting practice of limited companies within member countries as they were found to be substantially consistent in compliance, especially in countries that have instituted the Statistics and Tax returns (or "DSF") as a reporting medium.

Keywords: Compliance, Divergence, Convergence, Harmonisation of accounting standards, OHADA Uniform Accounting Act, International Financial Reporting Standards

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Fossung, Michael Forzeh, Assessment of Compliance With OHADA Uniform Accounting Act by Public Limited Companies (June 7, 2016). Accounting and Finance Research Vol. 5, No. 3; 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3433424 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3433424
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
D Avelé , J-G Degos
Standardisation of international accounting: harmonisation between OHADA and IASB (IFRS) reference frameworks
African J. Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 47 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M T Bradshaw , G S Miller
Will Harmonising Accounting Standards Really Harmonise Accounting? Evidence from Non-US Firms Adopting
GAAP. Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 23 , issue 2 Posted: 2008
E E Chamisa
The Relevance and Observance of the IASC Standards in Developing Countries and the Particular Case of Zimbabwe
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 49 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Deloitte &amp; Touche
IFRS Survey Results 2009: Update on views and activities Posted: 2009
Load more
1 Citations
Micheal Forzeh Fossung , Lious Agbor Tabot Ntoung , Helena Maria Santos de Oliveira , Cláudia Maria Ferreira Pereira , Susana Adelina Moreira Carvalho Bastos , Liliana Marques Pimentel
Transition to the Revised OHADA Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting: Corporate Perceptions of Costs and Benefits
Journal of Risk and Financial Management , volume 13 , issue 8 , p. 172 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
924
RANK
564,093
1 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies