Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unpacking the Roles of Shareholder Engagement Intermediaries: A Case Study of an Engagement Process on Carbon Risk

Posted: 9 Aug 2019

Jean-Pascal Gond

Cass Business School

Emma Sjöström

AP7; Stockholm School of Economics

Date Written: April 13, 2019

Abstract

Many institutional investors are spending considerable resources on engaging with companies on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues through dialogue, to promote the adoption of enhanced sustainability practice and reporting. At the same time, little is known about the roles played by intermediary organizations to which such engagement is often delegated, nor about how the use of an intermediary may shape the engagement process. To address this question, we conducted a qualitative case study of a three-year thematic engagement project on carbon risk focused on twenty energy companies and conducted by a single manager at one intermediary organization. Relying on a unique archival access capturing the log of dialogues between an engagement intermediary and twenty multinational corporations (MNCs) and supporting interviews, we identify and conceptualize four roles performed by engagement intermediaries to elicit companies’ responses: business diplomats, communication managers, soft regulators, and free sustainability coach and consultant. Our results highlight how these roles are mobilized through the engagement process in ways that help manage saliency in practice to enhance the impact of engagement on companies.

Keywords: ESG, engagement, social practice, occupational roles, carbon risk

JEL Classification: M14, G15, G23

Suggested Citation:

Gond, Jean-Pascal and Sjöström, Emma, Unpacking the Roles of Shareholder Engagement Intermediaries: A Case Study of an Engagement Process on Carbon Risk (April 13, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3433340 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3433340
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,076
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies