Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Audit Committees Overloaded? Evidence From The Effect Of Financial Risk Management Oversight On Financial Reporting Quality

Management Science, Forthcoming; doi: https://pubsonline.informs.org/doi/abs/10.1287/mnsc.2022.00360

60 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2019 Last revised: 24 Feb 2024

Musaib Ashraf

Michigan State University - Eli Broad College of Business

Preeti Choudhary

University of Arizona, Eller College of Management

Jacob Jaggi

Washington State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 20, 2023

Abstract

Audit committee (AC) responsibilities have increased over time, prompting concerns that overloading the AC with too many duties may impair the AC’s ability to oversee financial reporting. Using new AC charter-based proxies to measure AC responsibilities, we find that an emphasis on the AC overseeing financial risk management (which is a noncore AC duty) is associated with worse financial reporting quality, as proxied by restatements—consistent with the argument of AC overload by distraction. This overload effect is attenuated when an AC has more directors to share duties or when the AC retains an expert auditor who can serve as a substitute for AC oversight. This overload effect is accentuated when AC members are busy with multiple board appointments or when the external auditor is busy with other audits. We also find that AC financial risk oversight is associated with more AC meetings and greater turnover of AC directors, consistent with the notion of overload. In sharp contrast, we find that greater AC oversight over internal controls (which is a core AC duty) is associated with improved financial reporting quality. Overall, we document that the nature of AC duties impacts the AC’s ability to promote financial reporting quality and that noncore duties may overload ACs.

Keywords: corporate governance; audit committees; restatements; monitoring; financial reporting; financial reporting quality; financial reporting reliability

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ashraf, Musaib and Choudhary, Preeti and Jaggi, Jacob, Are Audit Committees Overloaded? Evidence From The Effect Of Financial Risk Management Oversight On Financial Reporting Quality (July 20, 2023). Management Science, Forthcoming; doi: https://pubsonline.informs.org/doi/abs/10.1287/mnsc.2022.00360, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3433389 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3433389
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
109 References
L J Abbott , Y Park , S Parker
The effects of audit committee activity and independence on corporate fraud
Managerial Finance , volume 26 , issue 11 , p. 55 - 67 Posted: 2000
L J Abbott , S Parker
Auditor selection and audit committee characteristics
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 46 - 66 Posted: 2000
L J Abbott , S Parker
Audit committee characteristics and auditor switches
Research in Accounting Regulation , volume 15 , p. 151 - 166 Posted: 2002
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit Committee Characteristics and Restatements. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
639
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,130
RANK
95,173
6 Citations
109 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies