Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Auditing & Risk Management, No. 2 (54)

Internal Auditing & Risk Management Year XIV, No 2(54) June 2019

56 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2019

Emilia Vasile

Universitatea Athenaeum

Dănuţ-Octavian Simion

Universitatea Athenaeum

Otilia Manta

Universitatea Athenaeum

Luciana Bezerita

Universitatea Athenaeum

Catalin Dumitrescu

Universitatea Athenaeum

Date Written: June 30, 2019

Abstract

The leadership of the modern enterprise is no longer satisfied with operative information but wants forecasts, wishes to anticipate future competition movements and the future evolution of the market taking into account what is happening today. Achieving good economic efficiency by businesses is conditional on the existence of a scientific leadership based on good knowledge of economic laws, the operative and accurate knowledge of supply and demand on the internal and external market, the dynamics of commodity prices, technological trends and the way to use the resources they have.

Keywords: Financial Management, Audit, Business, Economic Organizations

Suggested Citation:

Vasile, Emilia and Simion, Dănuţ-Octavian and Manta, Otilia and Bezerita, Luciana and Dumitrescu, Catalin, Internal Auditing & Risk Management, No. 2 (54) (June 30, 2019). Internal Auditing & Risk Management Year XIV, No 2(54) June 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3433245 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3433245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
G Dobrota , M Chirculescu
Long-term Financing Decision at Firms Level. Annals of Posted: 2009
T Eisenmann , G Parker , V Marshall
Strategies for Two Sided Markets
Harvard Business Review. Retrieved , p. 2011 - 2017 Posted: 2006-10
Nicholas Economides , Evangelos Katsamakas
Two-Sided Competition of Proprietary vs. Open Source Technology Platforms and the Implications for the Software Industry
NYU, Law and Economics Research Paper No. 05-20, NET Institute Working Paper No. 05-06 Pages: 36 Posted: 20 Oct 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M King
The End of Alchemy, Money, Banking, and the Future of the Global Economy Posted: 2016
Load more
1 Citations
Dirk Beerbaum Dr.
Transforming to agile audit: A case study research
20 Pages · Posted: 12 Apr 2021 · Downloads: 601
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
932
RANK
730,194
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies