Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Materiality Assessment and Stakeholder Engagement: A Content Analysis of Sustainability Reports

Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 2019

21 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2019 Last revised: 16 Oct 2019

Riccardo Torelli

Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Department of Economic and Social Sciences

Federica Balluchi

Parma University, Department of Economics and Management

Katia Furlotti

Parma University, Department of Economics and Management

Date Written: January 23, 2019

Abstract

Materiality is the driver through which companies can select issues to be included in non-financial reports favouring expectations of all the stakeholders. The aim of this research is to investigate, under the lens of Stakeholder Theory and Instrumental Stakeholder Theory, the possible relationship between the application of materiality principle in non-financial reports and the engagement of stakeholders, with a preliminary focus on different industries that are characterized by different types of stakeholder. We have subjected to a manual content analysis all the Italian listed companies that published a sustainability/integrated report in the years 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 following guidelines of GRI and IIRC (a total of 148 reports). The next statistical analysis highlights, as research finding, the importance of industry and above all of stakeholder engagement in the reporting process, in particular in the materiality analysis, to achieve a high level of materiality application level and a good report quality for stakeholders.

Keywords: materiality, stakeholder engagement, sustainability report, content analysis, Stakeholder Theory

JEL Classification: M10, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Torelli, Riccardo and Balluchi, Federica and Furlotti, Katia, The Materiality Assessment and Stakeholder Engagement: A Content Analysis of Sustainability Reports (January 23, 2019). Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3433149 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3433149
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
Accountability , Group
The Materiality Report -Aligning Strategy, Performance and Reporting
Lloyds Register Quality Assurance (LRQA Posted: 2006
C A Adams
Internal organisational factors influencing corporate social and ethical reporting
Beyond current theorizing. Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 250 Posted: 2002
Crossref
C A Adams
The ethical, social and environmental reporting -Performance portrayal gap
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 17 , issue 5 , p. 731 - 757 Posted: 2004
Crossref
C A Adams
A commentary on: corporate social responsibility reporting and reputation risk management. Accounting
Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 365 - 370 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,022
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,546
RANK
50,803
7 Citations
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies