Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Consequences of Corporate Governance Disclosure: Evidence from the 2006 SEC Regulation on Related-Party Transactions

60 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2019

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Haihao Lu

University of Waterloo

Date Written: August 7, 2019

Abstract

This paper examines economic consequences of a 2006 Securities and Exchange Commission regulation that mandated public firms to disclose their governance policies on related-party transactions (hereafter RPTs). Employing hand-collected RPT data for S&P 1500 firms, we find that the initiation of RPT governance disclosure significantly reduces the occurrence of RPTs and that the reduction in RPTs is negatively associated with the implied cost of capital (ICC) and positively related to Tobin’s Q. These effects are more pronounced for low-monitored firms and for firms with RPTs that are more likely to be opportunistic. We further find that firms with a formal written policy, a designated committee to review and approve RPTs, or more extensive disclosure on RPT governance benefit in terms of lower ICC.

Keywords: Related-party transactions, disclosure regulation, real consequences, implied cost of capital, corporate governance, RPT governance, SEC, valuation

JEL Classification: G30, G38, M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Lu, Haihao, Economic Consequences of Corporate Governance Disclosure: Evidence from the 2006 SEC Regulation on Related-Party Transactions (August 7, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3433776 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3433776
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Anwer S Ahmed , Scott Duellman
Accounting Conservatism and Board of Director Characteristics: An Empirical Analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue 2 , p. 411 - 448 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Ashbaugh-Skaife , Daniel W Hollis , Ryan Collins , Lafond
The Effects of Corporate Governance on Firms' Credit Ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , issue 1-2 , p. 203 - 246 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Balsam , Richard H Steven , John Gifford , Puthenpurackal
Related Party Transactions, Corporate Governance and CEO Compensation
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 44 , issue 5 , p. 854 - 94 Posted: 2017-05
Crossref
Mark S Beasley
An Empirical Analysis of the Relation between the Board of Director Composition and Financial Statement Fraud
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 443 - 65 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
529
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,988
RANK
121,386
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies