Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Principles-Based versus Rules-Based Accounting Standards on Reporting Quality and Earnings Management

Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Vol. 20, No. 1, 78-93, 2019

29 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2019

Dennis Sundvik

Hanken School of Economics

Date Written: February 11, 2019

Abstract

Purpose – The aim is to explore whether principles-based versus rules-based accounting standards have an effect on measures of financial reporting quality and earnings management strategies.

Design/methodology/approach – This study uses a firm-year-specific variable that captures the extent to which firms’ accounting and operating behaviour is affected by the characteristics of a specific standard in the United States. Measures of absolute accruals, financial misconduct, signed accruals and abnormal cash flows are used to assess the effects.

Findings – The results show that absolute magnitude of accruals and probability of financial misconduct is lower, and accrual earnings management is higher when firms’ standards are more based on principles. The study also suggests that potentially costlier real earnings management is a consequence of rules-based standards.

Research limitations/implications – This study relies heavily on measures from the prior accounting literature, hence, care has been exercised in generalising the findings.

Practical implications – This study has direct implications for a number of stakeholders, including standard setters, policymakers, securities regulators, researchers, investors, financial statement preparers, and auditors. For example, the future development of accounting standards can be supported by the empirical conclusions in this study together with previous standard setting ambitions, commentaries, experiments, analytical work.

Originality/value – This study extends prior single-country studies on reporting quality and cross-country studies on transition effects of firms switching from local to international accounting standards by observing the impact of accounting standard characteristics on additional measures of reporting quality and accrual as well as real earnings management when holding institutional factors constant. The study also offers archival evidence complementing prior commentaries, experiments, and analytical work.

Keywords: Accounting standards, Accruals, Earnings management, Principles-based standards

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Sundvik, Dennis, The Impact of Principles-Based versus Rules-Based Accounting Standards on Reporting Quality and Earnings Management (February 11, 2019). Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Vol. 20, No. 1, 78-93, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3433700
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
333
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,811
RANK
206,808
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies