Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Failure and Success in Mergers and Acquisitions

CentER Discussion Paper Series No. 2019-026

74 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2019

Luc Renneboog

Tilburg University - Department of Finance

Cara Vansteenkiste

Business School, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, 2000

Date Written: August 8, 2019

Abstract

This paper provides an overview of the academic literature on the market for corporate control, and focuses specifically on firms’ performance around and after a takeover. Despite the aggregate M&A market amounting to several trillions USD on an annual basis, acquiring firms often underperform relative to non-acquiring firms, especially in public takeovers. Although hundreds of academic studies have investigated the deal- and firm-level factors associated with M&A announcement returns, short-run returns are often not sustained in the long run. Moreover, the wide variety of performance measures and heterogeneity in sample sizes complicates the drawing of accurate and unambiguous conclusions. In this light, our survey compiles the recent literature and aims to identify the areas of research for which short-run returns predict (or fail to predict) long-run performance. We find that post-takeover deal performance is affected by key determinants including serial acquisitions, CEO overconfidence, acquirer-target relatedness and complementarity, and shareholder intervention in the form of voting or activism.

Keywords: Takeovers; Mergers and Acquisitions; Long-Run Performance; Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Renneboog, Luc and Vansteenkiste, Cara, Failure and Success in Mergers and Acquisitions (August 8, 2019). CentER Discussion Paper Series No. 2019-026, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3434256 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3434256
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
268 References
J Bena , K Li
Corporate innovations and mergers and acquisitions
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 1923 - 1960 Posted: 2014
Crossref
W Ben-Amar , P André
Separation of ownership from control and acquiring firm performance: The case of family ownership in Canada
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 33 , issue 3-4 , p. 517 - 543 Posted: 2006
Crossref
I Ben-David , M S Drake , D T Roulstone
Acquirer valuation and acquisition decisions: identifying mispricing using short interest
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 50 , issue 1-2 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2015
Crossref
F Bereskin , S K Byun , M S Officer , J M Oh
The effect of cultural similarity on mergers and acquisitions: evidence from corporate social responsibility
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 53 , issue 5 , p. 1995 - 2039 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,619
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,849
RANK
12,026
42 Citations
268 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies