Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Women on Boards and Greenhouse Gas Emission Disclosures: How Their Impact on Corporate Reputation

15 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2019 Last revised: 29 Aug 2019

Fransiskus E. Daromes

Universitas Atma Jaya Makassar

Monica

Atma Jaya Makassar University

Date Written: August 28, 2019

Abstract

The purpose of this research was to investigate the effect of the existence of women on boards on gas emissions disclosure, the influence of gas emissions disclosure on corporate reputation, and to investigate the effect of the existence of women on boards on corporate reputation mediated by gas emissions disclosure. Population used is the whole company public listed in Indonesia Stock Exchange period 2013- 2015. Number of samples are 73 firms each year, was selected by purposive sampling method and using secondary data, i.e. the annual report. The analytical method used is path analysis and hypothesis mediation analysed by using Sobel test. The result of analysis show that the existence of women on boards have positive but not significant effect on gas emission disclosure. While gas emission disclosure have positive and significant effect on corporate reputation. This research also shows that the gas emission disclosure plays a role in mediating the existence of women on boards on corporate reputation, while gas emission disclosure mediate the effect of the existence of women on boards on corporate reputation. The implication is the firms should pay more attention to the company's relationship with the surrounding environment so that the company's image can be improved because the firm’s sustainability are not only determined by the level of profitability, but also they have to combine economic performance, the concentration of social justice, and responsibility towards environmental sustainability.

Keywords: Women on Board of Directors, Disclosures, Reputation

Suggested Citation:

Daromes, Fransiskus E. and Djie, Monica, Women on Boards and Greenhouse Gas Emission Disclosures: How Their Impact on Corporate Reputation (August 28, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3434917 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3434917
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
J Barney
Firm resources and sustained competitive advantage
Journal of management , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 120 Posted: 1991
Crossref
A Chariri , I Ghozali
Teori akuntansi. Semarang: Badan Penerbit Universitas Diponegoro Posted: 2007
B B Choi , D Lee , J Dan Psaros
An analysis of Australian Company Carbon Emission Disclosures
Pacific Accounting Review , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 79 Posted: 2013
M E Crawford
Transformation: Women, Gender, and Psychology Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
242
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,752
RANK
288,800
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies