Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How managerial accountability mitigates a halo effect in managers’ ex-post bonus adjustments

Management Accounting Research, Vol. 51, 2021

Posted: 13 Aug 2019 Last revised: 3 Jul 2023

Miriam Maske

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Universität der Bundeswehr München

Matthias Sohn

European University Viadrina Frankfurt (Oder)

Bernhard Hirsch

Bundeswehr University Munich

Date Written: August 9, 2019

Abstract

To prevent unethical behaviour by employees, many companies include compliance aspects in their compensation schemes. For example, ex-post bonus adjustments allow managers to retract parts of bonuses previously paid to employees in reaction to fraudulent behaviour. We propose that the level of ex-post adjustment due to an employee’s misconduct depends on the employee’s ex-ante objective performance. We further propose that this effect is reduced when the managers must justify their final bonus decision, in which they can adjust a preliminary determined bonus. We conduct two experiments and find evidence confirming our hypotheses. The participants’ subjective ex-post bonus reduction is lower (higher) when the employees’ ex-ante objective performance is higher (lower). Additionally, our data show that increasing participants’ accountability by asking participants to justify their final bonus decision reduces this effect. Further analyses show – in line with what the halo effect proposes – that participants’ perception of employee morality mediates the effect of objective performance on the ex-post bonus reduction. This mediation is moderated by the presence of justification. Our findings expand prior research and can help firms implement remuneration schemes that foster compliant employee behaviour.

Keywords: halo effect; subjective performance evaluation; discretionary bonus adjustments; compliance; employee misconduct

JEL Classification: M14; M49; M52

Suggested Citation:

Maske, Miriam and Sohn, Matthias and Hirsch, Bernhard, How managerial accountability mitigates a halo effect in managers’ ex-post bonus adjustments (August 9, 2019). Management Accounting Research, Vol. 51, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3434896 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3434896
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,256
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies