Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Good Governance Practices: The Role of Board Independence

REFC – Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting.

31 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2019

Álvaro Melón-Izco

University of La Rioja - Department of Economy and Business

Francisco J. Ruiz-Cabestre

University of La Rioja - Department of Economy and Business

Carmen Ruiz-Olalla

University of La Rioja - Department of Economy and Business

Date Written: August 8, 2019

Abstract

This study contributes to broadening our knowledge of the corporate governance of firms. In particular, we consider board independence as a fundamental variable in the explanation of good governance practices. For this purpose, we analyse the Annual Corporate Governance Reports of the Spanish listed companies on the Continuous Market of the Madrid Stock Exchange during the period 2010-2016. The results for all companies reveal that firm size, ownership dispersion and board independence have a positive relationship with good practices, and the relationship between board independence and good governance practices is moderated by ownership dispersion. When we distinguish between firms that comply with board independence recommendation and those that do not, however, the results differ substantially, in terms of sign, magnitude and significance level. This highlights the importance of board independence in explaining good governance practices.

Keywords: corporate governance, corporate governance codes, good governance practices, firm size, ownership dispersion, board independence

JEL Classification: G34, G38, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Melón, Álvaro and Ruiz-Cabestre, Francisco Javier and Ruiz, Carmen, Determinants of Good Governance Practices: The Role of Board Independence (August 8, 2019). REFC – Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3434301
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , R Stulz , R Williamson
Differences in Governance Practices between U.S. and Foreign Firms: Measurement, Causes, and Consequences. The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , p. 3131 - 3169 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R V Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of Good Governance Worldwide: What is the Trigger? Organization Studies , volume 25 , p. 415 - 443 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R V Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of good governance
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 376 - 387 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R V Aguilera , K Desender , M K Bednar , J H Lee
Connecting the Dots: Bringing External Corporate Governance into the Corporate Governance Puzzle , volume 9 , p. 483 - 573 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
716
RANK
677,550
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies