Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dealing with Ethical Dilemmas: A Look at Financial Reporting by Firms Facing Product Harm Crises

Posted: 13 Aug 2019

Shafu Zhang

Hunan University

Like Jiang

University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics

Michel Magnan

Concordia University - Department of Accountancy

Lixin (Nancy) Su

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: August 10, 2019

Abstract

A product harm crisis (PHC) undermines a firm’s reputation as well as its managers’ career outlook. Managers usually face an ethical dilemma during a PHC as they choose to be transparent about the crisis’ financial implications or to obfuscate them to neutralize the negative impact of the PHC for their self-interests. We find evidence that managers engage in income-increasing earnings management when their firms experience PHCs. Such behavior reduces the likelihood of customer loss and CEO forced turnover in the short run but carries long-run negative consequences in terms of a higher likelihood of accounting restatement and weaker future operating performance. Our evidence suggests that earnings management in a PHC is deceptive and unethical. However, managers in firms that are subject to stricter external monitoring and managers in firms with proactive ethical policies are less likely to engage in upward earnings management in PHCs.

Keywords: product harm crisis, earnings management, ethical financial reporting, firm reputation

JEL Classification: M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Shafu and Jiang, Like and Magnan, Michel and Su, Lixin (Nancy), Dealing with Ethical Dilemmas: A Look at Financial Reporting by Firms Facing Product Harm Crises (August 10, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3435507
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
898
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies