Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Losers of Executive Promotion Tournaments: Their Incentives, Turnover, and Career Outcomes

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2019-0486

Posted: 15 Aug 2019 Last revised: 18 Jan 2022

Eric W. Chan

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

John Evans

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Duanping Hong

Kennesaw State University - Michael J. Coles College of Business

Date Written: August 12, 2019

Abstract

We investigate the consequences for losing competitors following the end of a promotion tournament. We examine CEO tournaments and find that the total incentives of non-promoted executives (NPEs) are likely to decrease significantly at the end of a tournament based on evidence of their lower future promotion prospects and limited adjustments to their explicit incentives. This leads to an increase in turnover of NPEs as compared to a matched sample of control executives. Evidence indicates that departed weak (strong) NPEs have worse (better) career outcomes, suggesting two simultaneous effects: 1) low quality managers are weeded out by the firm, and 2) high quality managers leave because firms are unable to adjust their incentives to retain them. Moreover, firms that use a two-step CEO succession plan with an heir apparent are likely to experience similar, but less dramatic, changes in their management team than firms that use a single CEO tournament.

Keywords: Promotion, Tournament, Executive Compensation, Executive Turnover

JEL Classification: J01, M12, M41, M51

Suggested Citation:

Chan, Eric W. and Evans, John Harry and Hong, Duanping, Losers of Executive Promotion Tournaments: Their Incentives, Turnover, and Career Outcomes (August 12, 2019). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2019-0486, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3436432 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3436432
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,276
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies