Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Review Article: Financial Performance Measures in Merger and Acquisition Studies

20 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2019

Seyed-Reza Hashemian-Rahaghi

University of Windsor - Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry; Universiti Putra Malaysia-Putra Business School; Tabriz University of Medical Sciences

Cheng FanFah

University Putra Malaysia

Farnaz Abed-Ashtiani

University of Windsor; University of Tabriz; Universiti Putra Malaysia

Taufiq Hassan

University Putra Malaysia - Faculty of Economics and Management

Date Written: July 21, 2017

Abstract

Mergers and Acquisitions (M&A)s are motivated by various reasons and their real result is difficult to predict as many factors affect their outcome and procedure. Current study aimed to review M&A researches which used financial and accounting measures. A group of studies indicated that restructurings leaded to better financial and operating profile of companies and they resulted in synergistic gains. However, many researches concluded no significant improvement was achieved or restructurings worsened the performance of companies. Studies implied that rationale for unsuccessful M&As could be explained by agency conflicts or hubris theory. Studies also explained financial motivation as another factor inducing M&As especially during tough times or where environmental factors provided context for restructurings. Size of the merger participants and industry classification impacted the M&A procedure. However studies reported contradictory findings of effect of M&A type on restructurings and no relationship observed between post acquisition performance of companies and method of payment.

Keywords: accounting indicator, acquisition, effecting factors, financial measure, merger motivations

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Hashemian-Rahaghi, Seyed-Reza and FanFah, Cheng and Abed-Ashtiani, Farnaz and Hassan, Taufiq, Review Article: Financial Performance Measures in Merger and Acquisition Studies (July 21, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3436345 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3436345
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
292
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,640
RANK
238,367
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies