Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Tax Aggressiveness on CEO Turnover

22 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2019

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Flávio Oliveira Brito

FUCAPE Business School

Date Written: August 12, 2019

Abstract

This study verifies the influence of corporate tax aggressiveness on the replacement of the Chief Executive Officer - CEO. Tax Aggressiveness can be a determinant of CEO turnover in companies listed on the Brazilian stock exchange B3. Methodologically, the study uses three metrics of tax aggressiveness to verify the nature of this relationship in the period from 2010 to 2016, ranking the results by quintile and identifying the high and low extremes of tax aggressiveness. In addition, control variables were used to reduce the bias of the proposed regression. The results evidence that less tax aggressive CEOs are more likely to be replaced. For managers, the findings reinforce that tax planning is a determinant factor to remain in the position.

Keywords: Tax Aggressiveness; CEO Turnover; Chief Executive Officer

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo and Brito, Flávio, Effect of Tax Aggressiveness on CEO Turnover (August 12, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3436078 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3436078
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Blouin
Defining and Measuring Tax Planning Aggressiveness
National Tax Journal , volume 67 , issue 4 , p. 875 - 900 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Daniel Gomes dos Santos , Alan Santos de Oliveira
Agressividade fiscal e a lucratividade nas empresas do setor de energia elétrica do Brasil
Revista Catarinense da Ciência Contábil , volume 19 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,406
RANK
360,957
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies