Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulation and the Evolution of Boards of Directors in Switzerland Over 30 Years

56 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2019 Last revised: 27 Mar 2024

Christophe Volonté

University of Basel

Date Written: August 12, 2018

Abstract

Boards of directors have been subject to unprecedented pressure to change and professionalize in the last decades. We analyze board structures of blue-chip firms in Switzerland between 1988 and 2017. The study shows that exogenous sources, not particularly induced by hard law, have had an important influence on board structures. The increasing demands by regulators, politicians, and proxy advisors led to smaller boards, higher board diversity, and less busy directors. Board committees have widely been established, especially audit, compensation, and nomination committees. Interestingly, however, many significant changes occurred before 2002, when corporate governance as a topic became popular in Switzerland and when the Swiss Code of Best Practice was introduced. The code counts as a milestone for corporate governance in Switzerland. The results, therefore, also show that even without strict regulations and amendments in company law (hard law) or even without non-binding self-regulatory codes (soft law) on a country level, firms continuously modernize and professionalize their board of directors. Spillover effects from other companies and other countries, as well as pressure by shareholders and proxy advisors, are the likely reasons.

Keywords: corporate governance, board of directors, regulation, exogenous determinants

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Volonté, Christophe, Regulation and the Evolution of Boards of Directors in Switzerland Over 30 Years (August 12, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3436395 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3436395
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,687
RANK
538,134
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies