Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Promise & Perils of Plain English Mutual Fund Disclosures

13 Harv. Bus. L.Rev. 59 (2023)

66 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2019 Last revised: 13 Nov 2023

Anne M. Tucker

University of Georgia School of Law

Yusen Xia

Georgia State University - Robinson College of Business

Date Written: June 2, 2021

Abstract

The SEC requires mutual funds to write disclosures for the average investor using plain English. These requirements make funds’ investment strategies and associated risks transparent and accessible for investors. Increasing investor understanding furthers the SEC’s regulation-through-disclosure regime—the primary method through which mutual funds are regulated. But our examination of funds’ summary prospectus—an abbreviated discussion of a fund’s strategies and risks—suggests that funds often fail to meet the plain English standard. Our analysis of all summary prospectuses filed between 2010 and 2020 reveal that mutual funds write long, hard-to-read, and complex disclosures. Importantly, we find that failure to draft disclosures in plain English is more than a technical error. Using a regression model, we find systematic patterns suggesting that funds may skirt the SEC’s plain English rules to dampen the revelation of past poor performance. In particular, positive past returns predict easier-to-read disclosures, but an increase in fund risk predicts harder-to-read disclosures. Our results suggest three recommendations. First, given this reality, the SEC should update their plain English guidance to funds. Second, the SEC may benefit from adopting text mining measures to better monitor and enforce disclosure standards. Finally, given the incentives to draft overinclusive and exhaustive disclosures, the SEC may want to sever liability for summary prospectus risk omissions if full disclosure is made elsewhere.

Keywords: investment company, mutual funds, text mining, NLP, disclosures, SEC, compliance, risk, investment strategy

JEL Classification: K22, G23, G38, G14

Suggested Citation:

Tucker, Anne M. and Xia, Yusen, The Promise & Perils of Plain English Mutual Fund Disclosures (June 2, 2021). 13 Harv. Bus. L.Rev. 59 (2023), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3436952 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3436952
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
509
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,094
RANK
126,881
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies