Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Corporate Sustainability Performance – Evidence From Brazilian Panel Data

20 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2019

Vicente Lima Crisóstomo

Universidade Federal do Ceará

Fátima de Souza Freire

Universidade de Brasília (UnB) - Department of Accounting

Maria Rafaela Oliveira

Tribunal de Justiça do Estado do Ceará

Date Written: August 13, 2019

Abstract

This paper aims to examine the influence of firm attributes on Corporate Sustainability Performance (CSP) of Brazilian firm under the Stakeholder and Agency theoretical frameworks. Logit panel data models were estimated for a sample of 2,685 firm-year observations of 327 firms in the period 2006-2015. Tests for the difference in means between leading CSP firms and others were also performed. The results show that ownership concentration adversely affects CSP of Brazilian firm. Additionally, firms with high environmental risk activities, larger firms and the ones with more growth opportunities tend to be leading CSP firms in Brazil. The findings on ownership concentration signal that dominant shareholders may not see CSP as a relevant concern in Brazil. Controlling shareholders’ interests do not seem to be congruent with the ones of external stakeholders. Furthermore, firms undertaking high environmental risk activities seem to worry more with CSP and its disclosure, perhaps due to the Brazilian environmental rules that have advanced in the last two decades. Larger Brazilian firms are more prone to give more attention to CSP as well as firms with more growth opportunities that may see CSP as important to improve its image in the market. The complexity of a market index that integrates Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability concerns is discussed in order to better understand the rationale for the CSP determinants as proxied by the membership to such an index.

Keywords: Corporate Social and Sustainability Performance, Sustainability Index, Determinants, Brazil

JEL Classification: M14

Suggested Citation:

Crisóstomo, Vicente Lima and Freire, Fátima de Souza and Oliveira, Maria Rafaela, Determinants of Corporate Sustainability Performance – Evidence From Brazilian Panel Data (August 13, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3437018 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3437018
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,110
RANK
635,835
4 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies