Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information, Incentives and CEO Replacement

NYU Stern School of Business

52 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2019 Last revised: 4 Dec 2024

Xiaojing Meng

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 15, 2023

Abstract

This paper provides a new explanation for CEO turnover. In an environment in which all potential CEOs are endowed with the same ability and the firm is not looking for a strategy change, I demonstrate that CEO turnover may still occur in equilibrium. Specifically, a performance-contingent CEO replacement policy changes the reward structure of the departing CEO and thereby helps reduce excessive compensation earned by a CEO who stays on the job. At the same time, hiring a new CEO to implement the project also implies that the newly hired CEO will receive a limited liability rent. The trade-off between the benefit and cost of CEO replacement may lead firms to optimally commit to a more aggressive CEO replacement policy than the one that is ex-post efficient.

Keywords: CEO replacement, CEO compensation, Severance pay, Information rent

Suggested Citation:

Meng, Xiaojing, Information, Incentives and CEO Replacement (August 15, 2023). NYU Stern School of Business, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3437910 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3437910
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
C Aghamolla , T Hashimoto
Aggressive Boards and CEO Turnover Posted: 2018
A Almazan , J Suarez
Entrenchment and severance pay in optimal governance structures
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 519 - 547 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover , S Radhakrishnan
The Controllability Principle in Responsibility Accounting: Another Look. Essays in Accounting Theory in Honor of Joel S. Demski , p. 183 - 198 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover , S Sunder
Earnings management and the revelation principle
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
298
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,763
RANK
233,304
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies