Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Corporate Governance Disclosures of Islamic Banks in Sudan: Implications for Shariah Governance

Afro-Asian Journal of Finance and Accounting (Forthcoming)

Posted: 20 Aug 2019

Saed Sulub

Universiti Malaysia Terengganu

Zalailah Salleh

Universiti Malaysia Terengganu (UMT)

Hafiza Aishah Hashim

Universiti Malaysia Terengganu (UMT)

Date Written: December 9, 2018

Abstract

The paper examines the association between the effectiveness of governance bodies in Islamic banks and Corporate Governance Disclosure (CGD) in a sample of Sudanese banks. We analysed the content of annual reports and employed Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) regression model with pooled effects. Consistent with previous studies in Islamic banks, the findings of this paper revealed low levels of CGD in Islamic banks of Sudan, which is only 39%, on average. The findings showed that Islamic banks with SSB members who hold advanced qualifications provided more information on CGD than their counterparts. However, we found that banks with SSB members who sit on more than one board tend to have lower CGD. In addition, we found that Islamic banks that have an established Audit Committee (AC), Internal Audit Function (IAF) and low levels of governmental ownership have higher CGD levels.These results are robust to alternative empirical models. Our study adds to the ongoing debate of Shariah governance in Islamic banks. In particular, while we support that IAF may play a significant role in Shariah governance as recommended by the regulators of the Islamic banking industry, our evidence shows that SSB multiple directorships, ceteris paribus, are not advantageous for Islamic banks.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Disclosure, Islamic Banks, Shariah Governance, Sudan

JEL Classification: G20, G28, G30, G38

Suggested Citation:

Sulub, Saed and Salleh, Zalailah and Hashim, Hafiza, Determinants of Corporate Governance Disclosures of Islamic Banks in Sudan: Implications for Shariah Governance (December 9, 2018). Afro-Asian Journal of Finance and Accounting (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3438529
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
555
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies