Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management and Fraudulent Financial Reporting

Acc. Fin. Review 4 (2) 50 – 55 (2019)

6 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2019

Rosita Suryaningsih

Multimedia Nusantara University

Febryanti Simon

Universitas Multimedia Nusantara

Date Written: July 19, 2019

Abstract

Objective - The objective of this research is to obtain empirical evidence about the effect of real earnings management that is proxied by abnormal Cash Flow from operating and discretionary expenses towards fraudulent financial reporting.

Methodology/Technique - The objects in this research are companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange (idx) between 2011 and 2015 comprised of companies that have engaged in fraudulent activities as well as those that have not, to enable a comparison to be made. The companies that have engaged in fraudulent financial reporting were obtained from a list issued by the Financial Services Authority (OJK), being the agency that oversees the capital market in Indonesia. The sampling is conducted using purposive sampling. Secondary data is used, and the hypotheses are testing using logistic regression analysis.

Finding - The results of this research show that: (1) Real Earning Management proxied by Abnormal Cash Flow from operating activities (CFO) have a significant effect towards Fraudulent Financial Reporting (FFR), (2) Real Earning Management proxied by Abnormal Discretionary Expenses does not have an effect on Fraudulent Financial Reporting (FFR) and (3) Real Earning Management that is proxied by Abnormal Cash Flow from operating (CFO) and Abnormal Discretionary Expenses have a simultaneous and significant effect on Fraudulent Financial Reporting (FFR).

Novelty - Based on these findings, this research provides insight to companies to enable them to give greater attention to abnormal cash flow from operating activities due to the effect this has on companies that are suspected of committing irregularities in its operational activities. This is important because fraudulent reporting can erode investor's confidence and thereby reduce investment in the company.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Abnormal Cash Flow; Abnormal Discretionary Expenses; Financial Services Authority (OJK); Fraudulent Financial Reporting; Real Earning Management

Suggested Citation:

Suryaningsih, Rosita and Simon, Febryanti, Earnings Management and Fraudulent Financial Reporting (July 19, 2019). Acc. Fin. Review 4 (2) 50 – 55 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3438241
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Abdul Rahman , R Haneem Mohamed , F Ali
Board, audit committee, culture and earnings management: Malaysian evidence
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 21 , issue 7 , p. 783 - 804 Posted: 2006
Crossref
K Baatour , H Ben Othman , K Hussainey
The effect of multiple directorships on real and accrual-based earnings management: Evidence from Saudi listed firms
Accounting Research Journal , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 395 - 412 Posted: 2017
Crossref
J V Carcello , A L Nagy
Audit firm tenure and fraudulent financial reporting , volume 23 , p. 55 - 69 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R Davidson , J Goodwin-Stewart , P Kent
Internal governance structures and earnings management
Accounting & Finance , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 267 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
349
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,575
RANK
196,357
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies