Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Company Characteristics, Corporate Governance, Audit Quality Impact on Earnings Management

Acc. Fin. Review 4 (2) 43 – 49 (2019)

7 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2019

Friska Firnanti

Trisakti School of Management

Kashan Pirzada

University Utara Malaysia, Malaysia; Global Academy of Training & Research (GATR)

Budiman

Trisakti School of Management

Date Written: July 12, 2019

Abstract

Objective - The purpose of this research is to empirically examine how company characteristics, corporate governance and audit quality affect earnings management.

Methodology/Technique - The population used for this research is manufacturing companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange between 2013 and 2015. The sampling method used in this research is purposive sampling. 64 companies are examined, with 192 items of data being obtained.

Finding - This research also uses statistical testing through a multiple regression. The results show that return on assets, financial leverage, free cash flow, and sales growth all have an influence on earnings management. Meanwhile, other variables such as managerial ownership, institutional ownership, board size, the presence of an audit committee, firm size, and audit quality have no significant effect on earnings management.

Novelty - In this research, company characteristics are proxied with the return on assets, financial leverage, firm size, free cash flow, and sales growth, while corporate governance is proxied with managerial ownership, institutional ownership, board size, and the presence of an audit committee.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Company Characteristics; Corporate Governance; Audit Quality; Earnings Management; Agency Theory

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Firnanti, Friska and Pirzada, Kashan and , Budiman, Company Characteristics, Corporate Governance, Audit Quality Impact on Earnings Management (July 12, 2019). Acc. Fin. Review 4 (2) 43 – 49 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3438238
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
A Ibrahim , M Azim
Investigating the impact of historical costing on real earnings management: an empirical study
International Business and Economics Research Journal , volume 13 , issue 2 Posted: 2014
Crossref
D Agustia
The influence of good corporate governance, free cash flow, and leverage factors on earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 42 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Aygun , S Ic , M Sayim
The Effects of corporate ownership structure and board size on earnings management: Evidence from Turkey
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 9 , issue 12 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,769
RANK
14,736
1 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies