Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit Function Characteristics and External Auditors’ Co-Sourcing in Different Institutional Contexts

International Journal of Auditing 23: 292-307, 2019

Posted: 19 Aug 2019

Annukka Jokipii

University of Vaasa - Department of Accounting and Finance

Fabrizio Di Meo

University of Alcala - Faculty of Economic Science and Business Studies

Date Written: July 16, 2019

Abstract

We examine the association between several characteristics of an internal audit function (IAF) and fees paid to external auditors to support internal audit activities (co-sourcing). We also analyze how this relation is influenced by the mandatory or voluntary implementation of IAFs. By using data from the Common Body of Knowledge (CBOK) study, which was conducted by the Institute of Internal Auditors Research Foundation (IIARF) in 2015, we find that more consulting-oriented IAFs and more autonomous IAFs are likely to pay higher co-sourcing fees, while IAFs with greater expertise are likely to pay lower co-sourcing fees. While results related to consulting activities hold regardless of the institutional context, the negative association between IAF expertise and co-sourcing fees paid to support internal audit activities only holds in mandatory IAF environments, and the positive association between IAF autonomy and co-sourcing fees paid only holds where IAF is voluntary.

Keywords: Internal audit, Internal audit function, Co-sourcing, Fees, IAF focus, IAF expertise, IAF autonomy, Mandatory, Voluntary.

JEL Classification: M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Jokipii, Annukka and Di Meo, Fabrizio, Internal Audit Function Characteristics and External Auditors’ Co-Sourcing in Different Institutional Contexts (July 16, 2019). International Journal of Auditing 23: 292-307, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3438278
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
614
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies