Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Board Demographic Diversity Enhance Cognitive Diversity and Monitoring?

The Accounting Review, forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2019 Last revised: 21 Jan 2022

Jun-Koo Kang

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Seil Kim

Baruch College, City University of New York

Seungjoon Oh

Peking University - HSBC Business School

Date Written: January 19, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether board demographic diversity enhances cognitive diversity (measured as director dissent in the boardroom) and monitoring. At the director level, we find that individual directors who are dissimilar relative to other board members in terms of tenure and experience are more likely to dissent. At the board level, boards composed of directors with heterogenous tenure, experience, and gender are more likely to dissent. We also find that stock market reactions to director resignation announcements are more negative for directors who have ever dissented than for other directors. Moreover, following dissent-driven proposal rejections, firms experience an improvement in value and internal governance and a decrease in risk. The results suggest that directors with diverse qualifications and skillsets and female directors enhance cognitive diversity and that this enhanced cognitive diversity helps increase firm value and monitoring effectiveness.

Keywords: Board Diversity, Cognitive Diversity, Director Voting, Dissent, Proposal Rejection, Firm Value, Monitoring Effectiveness

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Kang, Jun-Koo and Kim, Seil and Oh, Seungjoon, Does Board Demographic Diversity Enhance Cognitive Diversity and Monitoring? (January 19, 2022). The Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3438714 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3438714
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,430
RANK
42,634
17 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies