Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Boards' Reactions to Accounting for Income Tax Failures

39 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2019

Adam J. Olson

University of Cincinnati - Department of Accounting

Paul Ordyna

University of Cincinnati

Date Written: July 25, 2019

Abstract

In this paper, we examine boards’ reactions to accounting for income tax (AFIT) failures compared to other types of accounting failures in an attempt to better understand AFIT and how it functions within a firm. Specifically, we investigate executive turnover decisions surrounding the announcement of AFIT control weaknesses and AFIT restatements compared to other types of control weaknesses and restatements, respectively. Relying on attribution theory and the uniqueness of AFIT, we argue and find that executive turnover is lower after AFIT control weaknesses compared to other control weaknesses and that executive turnover is higher after AFIT restatements compared to other restatements. We find no similar pattern among stock market reactions or auditor turnover, or around other types of control weaknesses and restatements. Overall, our study suggests that board perceptions of AFIT failures is different than other failures due to the unique characteristics and functions of AFIT.

Keywords: Taxes, CFO Turnover, CEO Turnover, Control Weaknesses, Restatements

Suggested Citation:

Olson, Adam J. and Ordyna, Paul, Boards' Reactions to Accounting for Income Tax Failures (July 25, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3438460 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3438460
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,190
RANK
601,090
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies