Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Catering and Dividend Policy: Evidence From the Netherlands Over the Twentieth Century

Forthcoming, Financial History Review

44 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2019

Abe de Jong

Monash University; University of Groningen; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Philip T. Fliers

Queen's University Belfast - Queen's Management School

Henry van Beusichem

University of Twente, Faculty of Behavioural, Management and Social Sciences, Department of Finance & Accounting

Date Written: August 20, 2019

Abstract

This paper investigates the determinants of Dutch firms’ dividend policies in the 20th century. We identify three distinct episodes and document shifts in dividend policies in the 1930s and 1980s, because firm managers cater to the changing preferences of shareholders. The first episode, prior to the Second World War, was characterized by dividends that were fixed contracts between shareholder and management and the payouts were mechanically determined by earnings. The second epoch of Dutch dividend policy, until the 1980s, was characterized by dividend smoothing. Dividends were still strongly related to earnings, but because of shareholder’s preferences for stable dividend income, earnings changes are incorporated in dividends with a lag. Finally, dividend policy in the most recent episode is inspired by shareholder wealth maximization, based on agency and signalling motives. In this period, dividends have become largely decoupled from earnings.

Keywords: Dividends, Payout policies, Netherlands, Financial history

JEL Classification: G35, N24

Suggested Citation:

de Jong, Abe and Fliers, Philip and van Beusichem, H.C., Catering and Dividend Policy: Evidence From the Netherlands Over the Twentieth Century (August 20, 2019). Forthcoming, Financial History Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3439820 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3439820
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
998
RANK
856,579
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies