Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did the Siebel Systems Case Limit the SEC’s Ability to Enforce Regulation Fair Disclosure?

81 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2019 Last revised: 3 Feb 2022

Kristian D. Allee

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Brian J. Bushee

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Tyler J. Kleppe

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Andrew T. Pierce

J. Mack Robinson College of Business, Georgia State University

Date Written: January 28, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether a shock to the enforceability of Regulation Fair Disclosure (Reg FD) limited its ability to restrict the flow of private information between managers and investors. While prior work provides evidence that Reg FD reduced managers’ selective disclosure of material information immediately following its promulgation, we posit that private information flows returned as a result of the SEC’s public enforcement failure in SEC v. Siebel Systems, Inc. Using multiple settings, we find consistent evidence suggesting that Siebel changed the cost-benefit tradeoff for Reg FD compliance and effectively reversed the initial effects of the regulation. We also find that Siebel disrupted the equilibrium of selective disclosure activity, resulting in an unleveling effect among investors with respect to private information advantages. Finally, we find that Siebel also had real effects by altering managers’ capital structure decisions. Our findings run counter to the prevailing “mosaic theory” and gradual learning explanations for private information advantages in the extended post-Reg FD period and highlight the importance of enforcement in achieving intended regulatory outcomes.

Keywords: Regulation Fair Disclosure; SEC enforcement; Siebel Systems; institutional investors; selective disclosure; informed trading.

JEL Classification: G10, G14, G18, G30, G38, K20, K22, K42, M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Allee, Kristian D. and Bushee, Brian J. and Kleppe, Tyler J. and Pierce, Andrew T., Did the Siebel Systems Case Limit the SEC’s Ability to Enforce Regulation Fair Disclosure? (January 28, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3440155 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3440155
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
V V Acharya , T C Johnson
More Insiders, More Insider Trading: Evidence from Private-Equity Buyouts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 98 , p. 500 - 523 Posted: 2010
A Ali , M T Durney , J E Fisch , ; , H Kyung
Implicit Communication and Enforcement of Corporate Disclosure Regulation Posted: 2021
S Badrinath , S
Momentum Trading by Institutions
The Journal of Finance , volume 57 , p. 2449 - 2478 Posted: 2002
M B Baker , L Litov , J A Wachter , ; , J Wurgler
Can Mutual Fund Managers Pick Stocks? Evidence from Their Trades Prior to Earnings Announcements
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 45 , p. 1111 - 1131 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
526
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,243
RANK
121,963
14 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies