Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reliance on Third Party Verification in Bank Supervision

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 19-42

Posted: 22 Aug 2019 Last revised: 27 Aug 2019

Yadav Gopalan

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Andy Imdieke

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Joseph H. Schroeder

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Sarah B. Stuber

Texas A&M University - Mays Business School

Date Written: August 20, 2019

Abstract

We examine how third party verification of internal controls over financial reporting (ICFR) affects bank supervision by exploiting a change in size thresholds for required FDICIA-related internal control audits. We document that affected banks have higher reported levels of non-performing loans after the removal of internal control audit requirements compared to unaffected banks. This increase in non-performing loans is not accompanied by increases in past due loans, indicating more forthcoming reporting by management rather than operational deterioration. Furthermore, we find that the effects are concentrated in periods of heightened regulatory scrutiny and in banks with less stringent oversight in the pre-period. Examiners increase the length of targeted examinations and downgrade regulatory ratings, indicating an increase in stringency after the elimination of third-party verification of internal controls over financial reporting. Our findings suggest that third-party verification of internal controls is an imperfect substitute for bank supervision and efforts to rely upon externally generated assurance may heighten bank risk.

Keywords: financial regulation, bank supervision, third-party verification, delegated monitor- al controls, FDICIA, CAMELS ratings ing, intern

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gopalan, Yadav and Imdieke, Andrew and Schroeder, Joseph H. and Stuber, Sarah, Reliance on Third Party Verification in Bank Supervision (August 20, 2019). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 19-42, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3440203 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3440203
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,669
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies