Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What About the Future of European Banks? Board Characteristics and ESG Impact

Securities Regulation Law Journal, vol. 47, n. 4, Winter 2019, 319-364

37 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2019 Last revised: 28 Dec 2019

Brando Maria Cremona

Bocconi University, Angelo Sraffa Department of Legal Studies

Maria Lucia Passador

Bocconi University - Department of Law; Stanford University - Transatlantic Technology Law Forum (TTLF) Fellow; European Banking Institute; Harvard University - Harvard Law School

Date Written: August 23, 2019

Abstract

In this article, in addition to understanding what are the elements and stages that have guided the formation of a corporate culture in the ESG area, we focus on two specificities: the distinctive traits of the board of directors, on the one hand, and the relationship between ESG performance and the financial performance/company value together with the number of M&A transactions undertaken in the banking sector, on the other hand.

In light of the above, the study first investigates the size of the board of directors to identify the key players and the attributes that each board member must possess to optimize ESG performance. This aim was accomplished by screening all European listed company reports and documents published in 2018.

Afterwards, on the basis of the results reached in the first round, the second stage scrutinises the banking sector to establish the extent to which ESG’s performance impacts on some key corporate factors (performance, firm value and M&A transactions).

This leads to some recommendations regarding the optimal board structure, its internal structure and the features that a target should have if it were involved in an M&A deal. But not only that. In conclusion, we also wonder, ending in a doubtful way, whether pursuing such purposes belongs to the corporate purpose and which are their implications and their impacts with respect to the duties entrusted to directors.

Keywords: corporate governance, boards of directors, ESG, ESG reporting, firm value, financial performance, M&A transactions, sustainable investment, institutional investors, engagement, corporate social responsibility, corporate sustainability, long-term investing, risk management

JEL Classification: G11, G23, G30, G34, M14, O16

Suggested Citation:

Cremona, Brando Maria and Passador, Maria Lucia, What About the Future of European Banks? Board Characteristics and ESG Impact (August 23, 2019). Securities Regulation Law Journal, vol. 47, n. 4, Winter 2019, 319-364, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3441784
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
See Nicola Cucari
the Authors' findings appear in line with those of Pamela Kent, Reza Monem, What Drives TBL Reporting: Good Governance or Threat to Legitimacy?
CORP. SOC. RESPONSIB. ENVIRON. MGMT , volume 250 Posted: 2008
Olivier See , The Jan , Board , Harvard L Esg , School , Gov On Corp , Reg Fin
Posted: 2019
Crossref
Martin Lipton , Stakeholder Governance , Some , Harvard L Points , School , Gov On Corp , Reg Fin
SEPT , volume 20 , p. 6 - 7 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Jason Q Reference Is Made To , Zhang
Board Composition and Corporate Social Responsibility: An Empirical Investigation in the Post Sarbanes-Oxley Era, 114
J. BUS. ETHICS , volume 381 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,232
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,963
RANK
38,805
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies