Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Codetermination and Aggressive Reporting: Audit Committee Employee Representation, Tax Aggressiveness, and Earnings Management

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

60 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2019 Last revised: 23 Apr 2023

James Chyz

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Benjamin Fligge

University of Duisburg-Essen

Miles A. Romney

Florida State University - College of Business

Date Written: April 22, 2023

Abstract

This study uses a unique dataset from listed German companies that helps identify a granular measure of board-level codetermination to examine whether board-level codetermination (inclusion of employee representatives on the board) reduces aggressive financial and tax reporting, i.e., tax aggressiveness and earnings management. To the extent codetermination allows for effective employee monitoring of management, then it should be negatively associated with tax and financial reporting aggressiveness because prior research hypothesizes that employees prefer lower tax aggressiveness and less earnings management. Our analysis also highlights the mechanisms through which employees can monitor and influence firms’ decisions and outcomes. We find employee representation on audit committees is the most consistently influential codetermination mechanism associated with reduced tax aggressiveness and earnings management. We contribute to prior and current discussions of stronger employee rights and influences on management decisions from a board-level perspective.

Keywords: Co-Determination, Unions, Tax Aggressiveness, Earnings Management, Board, Audit Committee

JEL Classification: J53, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chyz, James and Eulerich, Marc and Fligge, Benjamin and Romney, Miles A., Codetermination and Aggressive Reporting: Audit Committee Employee Representation, Tax Aggressiveness, and Earnings Management (April 22, 2023). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3441342 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3441342
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
614
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,655
RANK
100,167
1 Citations
103 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies