Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Reporting and Family Firms

57 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2019 Last revised: 28 Sep 2019

Mitchell Van der Zahn

Canadian University Dubai

Ling Mei Cong

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Date Written: August 26, 2019

Abstract

We investigate the magnitude of sustainability reporting during a transition period from a voluntary reporting regime to a mandated ‘comply or explain’ regime. Our study focuses on investigating the impact of a firm’s designation as family or non-family firm on sustainability disclosure during the transition period. We also concentrate on examining the moderating influence of firm size and family firm type. Empirical tests are based on a sample of 436 Singapore publicly listed firms from April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2019 that yields 1,744 firm-year observations. Across the transition period average sustainability disclosure increased across all firm types (i.e., family and non-family). Results show family firms reported less sustainability information than non-family firms (included when government linked firms are excluded from non-family firms) during the transitory period. Multivariate tests indicate family firm designation is not a significant explanatory variable for the entire sample. However, the family firm designation is negative (positive) and significant among large and medium (small and micro) firms. Further tests show that the type of family firm (based on the power dimensions of ownership, management and governance) influenced the magnitude of sustainability disclosure, particularly among large and medium sized family firms. Finally, extended analysis found family firm designation influence the delay in issuing of standalone sustainability reports and integrated sustainability/annual reports once mandated ‘comply or explain’ requirements became effective from December 31, 2017.

Keywords: Sustainability Reporting, Family Firms, Singapore, Regime Change

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Van der Zahn, Mitchell and Cong, Ling Mei, Sustainability Reporting and Family Firms (August 26, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3442807 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3442807
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,277
RANK
339,258
1 Citations
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies