Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incidence of Characteristics of the Board of Directors on the Policy of Dividend Distribution: Study of Tunisian Non-Financial Listed Companies.

16 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2019

Ghanmi Najiba

FSEG SFAX

Ellouz Siwar

Business School of Sfax

Date Written: August 26, 2019

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to study the effect of the characteristics of the board of directors on the policy of dividend distribution in a context of the Tunisian non-financial listed companies between 2001- 2014. Thus, our empirical study is based on the estimation of a single model by following the technique of multiple linear regression (Panel).

Our results show a positive effect between the characteristics of the board of directors proxies {the size of the board of directors, the remuneration of the leader and the duration of the meetings of the board of directors} and the policy of dividend distribution in a context of Tunisian non-financial listed companies. In the same way, our empirical work do not make it possible to highlight a positive effect between the independence of members of the board of directors and the level of dividend distribution. On the other hand, our results of the estimate do not enable us to highlight the existence of a negative effect between the number of board meetings and the share of capital held by the leader and the policy of dividends distribution in the same context of Tunisian.


Keywords: Dividends, Characteristics of the Board of Directors

Suggested Citation:

Ghanmi, Najiba and Siwar, Ellouz, Incidence of Characteristics of the Board of Directors on the Policy of Dividend Distribution: Study of Tunisian Non-Financial Listed Companies. (August 26, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3442966 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3442966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
A Abbas
Effect of capital structure on the performance of firms : Evidence from Pakistan and Indian stock market
Journal of Business and Management , volume 12 , p. 83 - 93 Posted: 2013
H Ahmed , A Attiya
Dynamics and determinants of dividend policy in pakistan : evidence from karachi stock exchange no-financial firms
International Journal of finance , volume 18 , p. 148 - 171 Posted: 2009
A H  Albawwat , M Yazis , A Basah
Corporate Governance and Voluntary Disclosure of Interim Financial Reporting in Jordan
Journal of Public Administration and Governance , volume 5 , issue 2 Posted: 2015
Crossref
K L  Alli , A Q Khan , G G Ramirez
Determinants of Corporate Dividend Policy, A factorial Analysis
Financial Review , volume 28 , p. 523 - 547 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
570
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies