Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Corporate Social Responsibility Facilitate Public Debt Financing?

The Financial Review, Forthcoming

62 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2019 Last revised: 16 Jun 2025

Xin Chang

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Bin Xu

University of Reading - Henley Business School

Yung Chiang Yang

University of Liverpool - Management School (ULMS)

Date Written: January 15, 2020

Abstract

We find that firms with stronger CSR performance have a larger share of public debt in their total debt, particularly when they are subject to higher information asymmetry or greater financial constraints. Moreover, the CSR effect on public debt is weaker for firms in sin industries or low-trust regions where CSR is less likely to be viewed as a genuine commitment. Utilizing the BP oil spill event as a shock to investors’ CSR awareness, we document that the positive effect of CSR on public debt is more evident after the shock, particularly for firms outside the oil and gas industries.

Keywords: public debt, bank debt, debt structure, corporate social responsibility

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Xin and Xu, Bin and Yang, Yung Chiang, Does Corporate Social Responsibility Facilitate Public Debt Financing? (January 15, 2020). The Financial Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3442970 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3442970
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
A Abadie , G W Imbens
Large sample properties of matching estimators for average treatment effects
Econometrica , volume 74 , issue 1 , p. 235 - 267 Posted: 2006
H Amiraslani , K V Lins , H Servaes , A Tamayo
Trust, social capital, and the bond market benefits of ESG performance
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 421 - 462 Posted: 2023
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
K H Bae , J K Kang , J Wang
Employee treatment and firm leverage: A test of the stakeholder theory of capital structure
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 130 - 153 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,536
RANK
263,404
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies