Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Audit Committee Information Technology Expertise on the Reliability and Timeliness of Financial Reporting

The Accounting Review (Forthcoming)

Posted: 31 Aug 2019 Last revised: 6 Sep 2019

Musaib Ashraf

Michigan State University - Eli Broad College of Business

Paul N. Michas

University of Arizona - Eller College of Management

Dan Russomanno

Russomanno Research

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 26, 2019

Abstract

We examine whether information technology expertise on audit committees impacts the reliability and timeliness of financial reporting. We find a reduction in the likelihood of material restatements and information technology-related material weaknesses (which account for 55 percent of all reported material weaknesses), and more timely earnings announcements at firms with audit committee information technology expertise. These findings are robust to controlling for a firm’s other information technology attributes as well as when using entropy balanced samples, and we mitigate endogeneity concerns with evidence that our findings hold in a sub-sample of firms that all possess overall high-quality information technology. Finally, a difference-in-differences analysis, inclusion of firm fixed effects, and a falsification test largely support our assertion that the quality of financial reporting is significantly improved by the presence of an audit committee information technology expert.

Keywords: audit committee, board of directors, corporate governance, information technology, financial reporting reliability, financial reporting timeliness

JEL Classification: M41, M15

Suggested Citation:

Ashraf, Musaib and Michas, Paul N. and Russomanno, Dan, The Impact of Audit Committee Information Technology Expertise on the Reliability and Timeliness of Financial Reporting (August 26, 2019). The Accounting Review (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3443190
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,151
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies