Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Content of Real Operating Performance Measures from the Airline Industry

50 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2019 Last revised: 12 Dec 2019

Paul Borochin

University of Florida - Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate

Date Written: August 28, 2019

Abstract

I use daily passenger flight delay data for all publicly held domestic US airlines from 1996 to 2016 to answer fundamental questions about the efficiency of market participants, accounting measures, and analysts in assessing the firm’s real operating performance. Airline performance is priced in the cross-section of cumulative market- and industry-adjusted returns, with significant drift. Quarterly aggregates of performance predict post-earnings announcement drift. The sensitivity of individual airline operations to those of the entire industry, measured using a beta approach, carries a negative premium consistent with systemic operating risk being a liability rather than a positively priced risk factor with implications for the accounting beta literature. Return on sales reflects the quarter’s real operating performance better than other common ROA measures, contributing to the measure selection literature.

Keywords: Market efficiency, operating performance measures, return predictability

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Borochin, Paul, The Information Content of Real Operating Performance Measures from the Airline Industry (August 28, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3443979 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3443979
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
J M Addoum , J Murfin
Equity price discovery with informed private debt Posted: 2019
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
Portfolio theory and accounting
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 300 - 323 Posted: 1969
Crossref
M Ball , C Barnhart , M Dresner , M Hansen , K Neels , A Odoni , E Peterson , L Sherry , A Trani , B Zou
Total delay impact study
N EXT OR Posted: 2010
R Ball , J Gerakos , J T Linnainmaa , V V Nikolaev
Deflating profitability
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 248 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,637
RANK
495,993
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies