Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risks to Human Capital

99 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2019 Last revised: 6 Sep 2023

Mehran Ebrahimian

Stockholm School of Economics - Finance Department

Jessica A. Wachter

University of Pennsylvania - Finance Department; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Securities and Exchange Commission

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 5, 2023

Abstract

We build a model with inalienable human capital, in which investors finance individuals
who can potentially become skilled. Though investment in skill is always optimal, it
does not take place in some states of the world, due to moral hazard. In intermediate
states of the world, individuals acquire skill; however outside investors and individuals
inefficiently share risk. We show that this simple moral hazard problem, combined
with risk aversion of individuals and outside investors, amplifies the equity premium,
lowers the riskfree rate, and leads to disaster states that fall especially heavily on some
agents but not on others. We show that the possibility of disaster states distorts risk
prices and affects wealth inequality, even under calibrations in which they never occur
in equilibrium.

Keywords: Financing Frictions, Human Capital, Asset Pricing, Moral Hazard, Disaster Risks

JEL Classification: G12, D52

Suggested Citation:

Ebrahimian, Mehran and Wachter, Jessica A., Risks to Human Capital (September 5, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3443906 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3443906
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
D Acemoglu , M Golosov , A Tsyvinski
Political economy of mechanisms
Econometrica , volume 76 , p. 619 - 641 Posted: 2008
P Aghion , G.-M Angeletos , A Banerjee , K Manova
Volatility and growth: Credit constraints and the composition of investment
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 57 , p. 246 - 265 Posted: 2010
P Aghion , P Bolton
A theory of trickle-down growth and development
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 64 , p. 151 - 172 Posted: 1997
H Ai , A Bhandari
Asset pricing with endogenously uninsurable tail risk
Econometrica , volume 89 , p. 1471 - 1505 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
562
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,352
RANK
105,158
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies