Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility: An Umbrella or a Puddle on a Rainy Day? Evidence Surrounding Corporate Financial Misconduct

John Bae, Wonik Choi and Jongha Lim, European Financial Management, DOI/10.1111/eufm.12235, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2019

Jongwan John Bae

Kyungpook National University - School of Business Administration

Wonik Choi

California State University, Fullerton - Department of Accounting

Jongha Lim

California State University, Fullerton - Department of Finance

Date Written: January 2, 2019

Abstract

We examine the way a fraudulent firm’s pre‐ and postmisconduct corporate social responsibility engagement is associated with its stock performance to investigate the reputational role of corporate social responsibility (CSR). In the short term, firms with good CSR performance suffer smaller market penalties upon the revelation of financial wrongdoing, supporting the buffer effect, as opposed to the backfire effect, of a good social image. We also find that the misbehaving firms’ post‐misconduct CSR efforts are negatively associated with delisting probabilities, and positively with stock returns. These findings support the argument that increasing post‐crisis CSR engagement can be an effective remedy for a damaged reputation.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, financial misconduct, insurance, market penalty, reputation repair

JEL Classification: G30, G41, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bae, Jongwan and Choi, Wonik and Lim, Jongha, Corporate Social Responsibility: An Umbrella or a Puddle on a Rainy Day? Evidence Surrounding Corporate Financial Misconduct (January 2, 2019). John Bae, Wonik Choi and Jongha Lim, European Financial Management, DOI/10.1111/eufm.12235, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3443824
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
B Cornell , A C Shapiro
Corporate stakeholders and corporate finance
Financial Management , volume 16 , p. 5 - 14 Posted: 1987
Crossref
R M Cyert , M H Degroot
Bayesian Analysis and Uncertainty in Economic Theory Posted: 1987
Crossref
N Dawar , M M Pillutla
Impact on product-harm crises on brand equity: The moderating role of consumer expectations
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 37 , p. 215 - 226 Posted: 2000
Crossref
D H Dean
Consumer reaction to negative publicity: Effects of corporate reputation, response, and responsibility for a crisis event
Journal of Business Communication , volume 41 , p. 192 - 211 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,381
RANK
478,373
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies