Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Financial Structure and Dividend Distribution Policy: Study of Tunisian No Financial Listed Companies

14 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2019

Ghanmi Najiba

FSEG SFAX

Ellouz Siwar

Business School of Sfax

Date Written: August 26, 2019

Abstract

On the basis of a sample of Tunisian non-financial listed companies between 2001-2014, following the multiple regression technique, our results allow us to show that the determinants of the financial structure can have a negative relationship proxies (the level of debt) or positive proxies (the profitability of the firm) with the dividend distribution policy. Admittedly, our results are not in line with our research assumptions and do not highlight the negative effect of the growth opportunity and the size of the company on the level of dividend distribution.

Keywords: Dividends, Financial structure

Suggested Citation:

Ghanmi, Najiba and Siwar, Ellouz, Determinants of Financial Structure and Dividend Distribution Policy: Study of Tunisian No Financial Listed Companies (August 26, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3443058
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A Abbas
« Effect of capital structure on the performance of firms: Evidence from Pakistan and Indian stock market
Journal of Business and Management , volume 12 , issue 6 , p. 83 - 93 Posted: 2013
H Ahmed , A Attiya
« Dynamics and determinants of dividend policy in pakistan : evidence from karachi stock exchange no-financial firms
international Journal of finance , volume 18 , p. 148 - 171 Posted: 2009
F  Allen , R Michaely
« Dividend Policy
Finance of Handbooks in Operations Research and Management Science » , volume 9 , p. 793 - 837 Posted: 1995
L  Allen , A Gottesman , A Saunders , Y Tang
The role of banks in dividend policy» , volume 41 , p. 591 - 613 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
510
RANK
692,403
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies