Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economic Consequences of Criminal Firms

Presented at the 2019 Global Issues in Accounting Conference at Chicago Booth

41 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2019 Last revised: 14 Sep 2021

Michele Fabrizi

University of Padua

Antonio Parbonetti

University of Padua

Date Written: January 18, 2021

Abstract

This paper investigates the economic consequences of firms connected to organized crime (criminal firms) and shows that when a criminal firm is eliminated from an industry, the performance of non-criminal competitors significantly increases. We also show that the positive effect on the performance of the non-criminal competitors includes improved efficiency reached after the elimination of the criminal competitor. Overall we provide evidence that criminal firms play a crucial role in hampering competition and shows that the economic costs imposed by organized crime are not exclusively linked to a deterioration of the institutional environment.

Keywords: organized crime, competition, performance, Mafia, corporate connections

JEL Classification: M10, M41, G30

Suggested Citation:

Fabrizi, Michele and Parbonetti, Antonio, The Economic Consequences of Criminal Firms (January 18, 2021). Presented at the 2019 Global Issues in Accounting Conference at Chicago Booth, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3444839 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3444839
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Felia Allum , Renate Siebert
Organised Crime and the Challenge to Democracy Posted: 2003
Edward I Altman
Predicting Financial distress of Companies: Revisiting the Z-score and ZETA Models Posted: 2000
Adam Asmundo
Indicatori e costi di criminalità mafiosa
Alleanze nell'ombra. Mafie ed economie locali in Sicilia e nel Mezzogiorno , p. 45 - 66 Posted: 2004
Guglielmo Barone , Narciso Gaia
The Effect of Mafia on Public Transfers". The Rimini Centre for Economic Analysis Working Paper 34_13 Posted: 2012
Load more
2 Citations
Francesca Calamunci , Francesco Drago
The Economic Impact of Organized Crime Infiltration in the Legal Economy: Evidence from the Judicial Administration of Organized Crime Firms
CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP14326 · 39 Pages · Posted: 29 Jan 2020 · Downloads: 14
 Add To Cart  Add Paper to My Library
Francesca Calamunci , Francesco Drago
The Economic Impact of Organized Crime Infiltration in the Legal Economy: Evidence from the Judicial Administration of Organized Crime Firms
IZA Discussion Paper No. 13028 · 37 Pages · Posted: 23 Mar 2020 · Last revised: 23 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 105
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
337
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,843
RANK
204,108
2 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies