Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Credit and Trade Credit: Evidence from Natural Experiments

Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2019

Shenglan Chen

Zhejiang University of Technology

Hui Ma

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Date Written: August 28, 2019

Abstract

Prior studies find mixed evidence about the substitution relation between bank credit and trade credit. In this paper, using two bank interest rate deregulations in China, we revisit the substitution hypothesis by examining how exogenous increases in the availability of bank credit affect trade credit. We find that firms with higher credit risk increased their use of bank credit and reduced their use of trade credit after the 2004 bank interest rate ceiling deregulation, whereas firms with lower credit risk increased their use of bank credit and reduced their use of trade credit after the 2013 bank interest rate floor deregulation. Our results provide supportive evidence for the substitution hypothesis that firms reduce their use of trade credit after the relaxation of bank credit and suggest that bank credit is more favorable short-term financing than trade credit.

Keywords: trade credit; bank credit; China; bank deregulation; quasi-natural experiment

JEL Classification: G21; G32; M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Shenglan and Ma, Hui and Wu, Qiang, Bank Credit and Trade Credit: Evidence from Natural Experiments (August 28, 2019). Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3444209
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Y W Lee , J D Stowe
Product Risk, Asymmetric Information, and Trade Credit
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 285 - 300 Posted: 1993
Crossref
R Levine , C Lin , W Xie
Corporate Resilience to Banking Crises: The Roles of Trust and Trade Credit
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 53 , issue 4 , p. 1441 - 1477 Posted: 2018
Crossref
M S Long , I B Malitz , S A Ravid
Trade Credit, Quality Guarantees, and Product Marketability
Financial Management , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 117 - 127 Posted: 1993
Crossref
I Love , L A Preve , Allende , V S
Trade Credit and Bank Loan: Evidence from Recent Financial Crises
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 83 , issue 2 , p. 453 - 469 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,435
RANK
379,149
10 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies