Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Shareholder Primacy, Publicness, and 'Privateness' on Corporate Cultures

Seattle University Law Review, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2019

Donald C. Langevoort

Georgetown University Law Center

Date Written: August 27, 2019

Abstract

There is widespread belief in both scholarship and business practice that internal corporate cultures materially affect economic outcomes for firms. In turn, there is also a growing belief that corporate governance arrangements materially affect corporate cultures. If this is true, it suggests an intriguing three-link causal chain: governance choices influence corporate performance, at least in part via their effects on internal culture. This essay, written for the “Berle XI” symposium, explores that possibility. This subject is important to lawyers and legal scholars because of the symbiotic nature of law and governance, with an increasing risk of enhanced corporate criminal and civil liability when cultures are judged to be deficient. Finding the right place for culture in governance is a heavy lift. To this end, the first part of the essay introduces the battle over corporate cultures as part of a broader contestation about primacy in corporate governance, offering a perspective on the meaning of corporate culture, its place in political debates over corporate responsibility, and its usefulness to corporate law. The first part also tries to define with more clarity the differences between the cultural norms of shareholder primacy and publicness. The second part turns the reader’s attention to the overwhelmingly diverse scholarly perspectives on corporate culture and the place of corporate culture within the overarching canopy of social culture. The essay then moves on to ask about the work being done by corporate culture in terms of both law and governance, and the extent to which this can or should be thought of in functionalist terms. Then comes the main pay-off: an assessment of arguments in light of all the foregoing about the cultural causes and effects about shareholder primacy, publicness and “privateness.” Suppose managerialism triumphed in the governance wars so as to gain its desired level of autonomy from shareholder pressures for boards and managers. Would we then expect to see a cultural shift inside corporations toward greater honesty and civil engagement, and if so why? If not, what then? The essay concludes with a closer look at the politics surrounding the corporate culture wars.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Culture

Suggested Citation:

Langevoort, Donald C., The Effects of Shareholder Primacy, Publicness, and 'Privateness' on Corporate Cultures (August 27, 2019). Seattle University Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3444332
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Greg Urban
Corporations in the Flow of Culture
U L Seattle , Rev
); see also Greg Urban, Corporate Compliance as a Problem of Cultural Motion, 69 Rutgers U
L. Rev Posted: 2016
This is a main point in the survey by Dupont & Karpoff, supra
See John , C Coffee
Do Norms Matter? A Cross-Country Evaluation, 149 U. Pa
L. Rev Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,500
RANK
248,063
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University Law Center Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies