Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Corporate Governance Characteristics on Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure Index – A Case Study of Islamic Banks in Pakistan

Parveen, M., Yasser, F., & Hussain, T. (2018). Impact of Corporate Governance Characteristics on Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure Index – A Case Study of Islamic Banks in Pakistan. Islamic Banking and Finance Review, 5, 89–113.

26 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2019

Mariam Parveen

University of Management and Technology, Lahore, School of Commerce and Accountancy, Students

Farah Yasser

University of Management and Technology (UMT), Pakistan

Talat Hussain

University of Management and Technology (UMT), Pakistan

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

The relationship between corporate governance characteristics and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) disclosure was analyzed empirically in this study. For this purpose, data were collected from Islamic banks in Pakistan for the time period spanning from 2009-2016. Regression analysis was used along with descriptive statistics, correlation analysis, and incremental regression analysis. The study found significant findings in favor of hypotheses regarding CEO duality, profitability and board independence for Islamic banks. All the empirical findings concluded that the determinants of corporate governance have a momentous influence on the reporting of CSR of Islamic banks in Pakistan. The outcomes of this research are valuable for policymakers and managers for the evaluation of the existing principles of corporate governance structure by considering its influence on CSR disclosure in the Islamic banking sector.

Keywords: Corporate governance characteristics, Corporate social responsibility disclosure, Islamic Banks

JEL Classification: G21, G34,

Suggested Citation:

Parveen, Mariam and Yasser, Farah and Hussain, Talat, Impact of Corporate Governance Characteristics on Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure Index – A Case Study of Islamic Banks in Pakistan (2018). Parveen, M., Yasser, F., & Hussain, T. (2018). Impact of Corporate Governance Characteristics on Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure Index – A Case Study of Islamic Banks in Pakistan. Islamic Banking and Finance Review, 5, 89–113., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3444008
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
D A Baden , I A Harwood , D G Woodward
The effect of buyer pressure on suppliers in SMEs to demonstrate CSR practices: An added incentive or counter productive?
European Management Journal , volume 27 , issue 6 , p. 429 - 441 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Baker , P A Gompers
The determinants of board structure at the initial public offering
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 569 - 598 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Crossref
D G Barako , A M Brown
Corporate social reporting and board representation: evidence from the Kenyan banking sector
Journal of Management & Governance , volume 12 , issue 4 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
757
RANK
521,283
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies