Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Anti-Pledging Policy, CEO Compensation, and Investment

59 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2019 Last revised: 10 May 2022

Jihun Bae

City University London

Ruishen Zhang

The University of Hong Kong

Date Written: May 10, 2022

Abstract

We study the implications of a recent governance practice promoted by proxy advisors, namely an anti-pledging policy, which limits managers' ability to unwind their equity-based compensation. Using a sample of S&P 1500 firms, we find that CEOs' pay-for-performance sensitivity (i.e., delta) and risk-taking incentives (i.e., vega) as well as firms' investment growth and investment-Q sensitivity decrease after the adoption of an anti-pledging policy. Meanwhile, adoption mitigates opposition from proxy advisors. Taken together, our findings suggest that limiting compensation flexibility to cater to proxy advisors may produce unfavorable outcomes for firms, which calls into question a one-size-fits-all approach to governance policies.

Keywords: Governance policy, Share pledging, Compensation, Investment, Proxy advisors

JEL Classification: G31, G34, M12, M52, D72

Suggested Citation:

Bae, Jihun and Zhang, Ruishen, Anti-Pledging Policy, CEO Compensation, and Investment (May 10, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3445348 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3445348
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
K R Ahern , A K Dittmar
The changing of the boards: The impact on firm valuation of mandated female board representation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
R Anderson , M Puleo
Insider share-pledging and equity risk
Journal of Financial Services Research , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2020
M Arellano , S Bond
Some tests of specification for panel data: Monte carlo evidence and an application to employment equations
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 , p. 277 - 297 Posted: 1991
M Arellano , O Bover
Another look at the instrumental variable estimation of errorcomponents models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 68 , p. 29 - 51 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
555
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,559
RANK
114,072
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies