Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do CEOs Use the Media for Reputation Management?

33 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2019

Ela Ostrovsky-Berman

Hebrew University of Jerusalem

Date Written: March 1, 2019

Abstract

This study aims to investigate whether CEOs use the media as a strategic tool to manage and enhance reputation. This is pursued by examining the tendency of CEOs to provide interviews to the financial press as a reaction to past, present, and future events that influence their reputation.
The tendency of CEOs to give press interviews is examined as a function of a set of proxies that are used for gauging CEOs’ reputations: CEO tenure, press coverage, being a CEO appointed from inside/outside of the ﬁrm, and ﬁrm performance during CEO tenure.

The results of this paper reveal that the timing of CEOs’ decisions to give interviews is not random and provides evidence that is consistent with the notion that CEOs use the media as a strategic tool to manage and enhance reputation.

The author shows that interviews tend to follow positive firm performance, and tend to precede extremely negative firm performance. This behavior is more pronounced for CEOs with lower initial reputation. In addition, low future performance motivates CEOs to give more interviews in advance, which could be an attempt to influence investors' expectations.

The paper sheds new light on the selective usage of the media for shaping public perceptions. This study has practical value for both regulators and investors by virtue of analyzing information that is provided via the media.

Keywords: Reputation, Media, Voluntary disclosures, Financial press, CEOs, Textual analysis

JEL Classification: D82, D83, G14, G18, G30

Suggested Citation:

Ostrovsky-Berman, Ela, Do CEOs Use the Media for Reputation Management? (March 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3445987 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3445987
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
Crossref
K Ahern , D Sosyura
Who writes the news? Corporate press releases during merger negotiations
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 241 - 291 Posted: 2014
Crossref
E Bartov , D Givoly , C Hayn
The rewards to meeting or beating earning expectations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J Boudoukh , R Feldman , S Kogan , M Richardson
Which news moves stock prices? A textual analysis Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
897
RANK
505,214
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies