Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value of Politically Connected Independent Directors: Evidence from the Anti-Corruption Campaign in China

European Corporate Governance Institute - Finance Working Paper No. 627/2019

58 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2019 Last revised: 9 Oct 2019

Chang Zhang

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

Date Written: August 15, 2019

Abstract

A new regulation issued in the end of 2013 as part of the anti-corruption campaign in China leads to a wave of resignation of politically connected independent directors (PCID). I find while firms with PCIDs have negative cumulative abnormal return (CAR) around release of the new regulation, they have even larger positive CAR around announcement of PCID resignations, especially for non-SOEs. This is because firms with PCIDs have higher political risk after release of the regulation, but their political risk decreases after PCIDs resign and they are complied with the regulation. I also show operating performance does not change after PCID resignations, casting doubt on the "helping hand" theory of political connections.

Keywords: Political connections; Independent directors; Political risk; Firm value

JEL Classification: G14, G3

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Chang, Value of Politically Connected Independent Directors: Evidence from the Anti-Corruption Campaign in China (August 15, 2019). European Corporate Governance Institute - Finance Working Paper No. 627/2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3446410 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3446410
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
U Akcigit , S Baslandze , F Lotti
Connecting to power: political connections, innovation, and firm dynamics
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 2018
Crossref
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
The quarterly journal of economics , volume 131 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
Crossref
N Boubakri , O Guedhami , D Mishra , W Saffar
Political connections and the cost of equity capital
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 18 , p. 541 - 559 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Brogaard , A Detzel
The asset-pricing implications of government economic policy uncertainty
Management Science , volume 61 , p. 3 - 18 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,338
RANK
334,632
1 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies