Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Compensation in Early-Stage Firms

41 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2019

Thi Bui

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Andrew Ferguson

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Peter Lam

University of Technology, Sydney - Discipline of Accounting; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: September 2, 2019

Abstract

Prior studies on chief executive officer (CEO) compensation have mainly focused on large firms from a broad spectrum of industries. This study aims to provide further evidence on the determinants of CEO compensation for small, homogeneous firms. Using a sample of Australian early-stage mining exploration entities (MEEs) over the 2004−2017 period, we document a set of predictors of CEO compensation that are unique to this group of firms. First, fluctuations in commodity prices are found to be positively associated with CEO stock options value. Second, we find that signals of MEEs’ future prospects, conveyed through additions to and acquisition of capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure, have positive impacts on CEO compensation. Third, proceeds from equity raisings indicate CEOs’ effort and skills to improve shareholder wealth, resulting in higher compensation. Lastly, we find some evidence supporting the relevance of non-executive directors’ advisory role over their monitoring role.

Keywords: CEO compensation; capital and ownership structure; corporate governance; capitalised exploration and evaluation assets; early-stage entities

JEL Classification: J33, G32, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bui, Thi and Ferguson, Andrew and Lam, Peter, CEO Compensation in Early-Stage Firms (September 2, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3446455 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3446455
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,190
RANK
366,257
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies