Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bogging Down Investors: An Unintended Consequence of Litigation Risk

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2025-189

51 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2019 Last revised: 7 Mar 2025

Siwen Fu

International Institute of Finance, School of Management, University of Science and Technology of China

Ke Wang

University of Alberta - School of Business

Liandong Zhang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Liu Zheng

City University of Hong Kong

Date Written: January 12, 2025

Abstract

Securities litigation risk is a well-recognized yet underexplored source of financial reporting complexity or unreadability. This study examines the effect of litigation risk on the readability of corporate financial reports. The 1999 Silicon Graphics Inc. (SGI) court ruling unexpectedly reduced litigation risk for firms within the Ninth Circuit Court’s jurisdiction. Using a difference-in-differences design centered on the SGI court ruling, we find that, while the readability of financial reports generally declines over the sample period, treated firms in the Ninth Circuit experience a comparatively smaller decline in readability than control firms in other states after the ruling. Put differently, treated firms experience a relative improvement in reporting readability following the ruling. This effect is concentrated among firms prone to securities litigation and those with greater external financing needs, but it is muted for firms engaging in earnings management. Furthermore, improved reporting readability among treated firms can be partially attributed to alleviated concerns about the adequacy of cautionary language, as evidenced by a significant decrease in negative forward-looking statements, particularly risk-related ones. Collectively, our findings suggest that securities litigation risk contributes to reduced readability in financial reporting.

Keywords: litigation risk, readability, Ninth Circuit, plain English, forward-looking statements

JEL Classification: D80, G14, M41, K22

Suggested Citation:

Fu, Siwen and Wang, Ke and Zhang, Liandong and Zheng, Liu, Bogging Down Investors: An Unintended Consequence of Litigation Risk (January 12, 2025). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2025-189, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3447040 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3447040
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,807
RANK
240,980
2 Citations
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies