Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effective Bank Corporate Governance: Observations From the Market Crash and Recommendations for Policy

Journal of Applied Finance & Banking, 2010

36 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2019

Moorad Choudhry

London Metropolitan University; University of Kent Business School

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

This paper considers the extent to which inadequate corporate governance was a contributory factor to the financial market crash. It examines the experience of selected failed banks, with emphasis on the corporate governance structure in place at each firm, and the background and expertise of the Board and Directors, and draws conclusions for future policy. We find that the nature and composition of Boards was not robust enough to provide independent direction. Their membership possessed insufficient expertise, and was not geared towards a long-term view of the bank’s development. Consequently many banks were drawn into a bull market spiral. The form of management direction contributed to this. Based on our conclusions we recommend that a number of bank governance measures be implemented, if necessary for imposition by regulatory fiat. These measures relate to the composition, structure and expertise of board members and non-executive directors.

Keywords: corporate governance; financial institutions; board strategy, regulatory policy; management infrastructure

JEL Classification: H12, G32, G28

Suggested Citation:

Choudhry, Moorad and Choudhry, Moorad, Effective Bank Corporate Governance: Observations From the Market Crash and Recommendations for Policy (2010). Journal of Applied Finance & Banking, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3447761 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3447761
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
760
RANK
697,608
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies