Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
(When) Does Transparency Hurt Liquidity?

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2021-126

45 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2019 Last revised: 29 Feb 2020

Karthik Balakrishnan

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Aytekin Ertan

London Business School

Yun Lee

Singapore Management University

Date Written: February 26, 2020

Abstract

Conventional wisdom suggests that increases in public information improve market liquidity. However, if greater public information incentivizes only sophisticated investors to produce private information, it could exacerbate information asymmetry among investors and thus reduce liquidity. We explore this argument on a sample of mortgage-backed securities (MBSs) by using a recent European regulation that mandates complex disclosures about the individual loans underlying MBSs. We find that the liquidity of the debt tranches of disclosed MBSs declines by 23% post-regulation. Our inferences are stronger when the securities are harder to value and when the disparity in investor sophistication is higher. In contrast to these findings, we also find that the disclosures increase the liquidity of the equity tranches of the same MBSs. Overall, our evidence implies that the liquidity impact of enhanced public information varies with the nature of the asset in question; this effect is likely a function of the investors’ incentives for information production and price discovery.

Keywords: liquidity, disclosure, securitization, information sensitivity, regulation, MBS, ABS

JEL Classification: G10, G21, G23, G28

Suggested Citation:

Balakrishnan, Karthik and Ertan, Aytekin and Lee, Yun, (When) Does Transparency Hurt Liquidity? (February 26, 2020). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2021-126, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3447412 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3447412
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
Crossref
T Adrian , N Boyarchenko , O Shachar
Dealer balance sheets and bond liquidity provision
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 89 , p. 92 - 109 Posted: 2017
Crossref
G Akerlof
The market for lemons: Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 235 - 251 Posted: 1970
Crossref
D Amiram , E Owens , O Rozenbaum
Do information releases increase or decrease information asymmetry? New evidence from analyst forecast announcements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 121 - 138 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
477
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,754
RANK
137,237
3 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies