Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Activity Based Costing Model in Laboratory of Care Hospital

African Journal of Business Management, 6(23), 2012, 6811-6817

7 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2019 Last revised: 17 Oct 2023

Ali Habibi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ravi Kumar Tati

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Hosein Asgari Alouj

Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Bilesavar branch

Eskandar Abdolahi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Hospitals in Hyderabad feel pressure from customers and regulators to provide high quality service at a lowest possible cost for them. In this study, we investigate whether the hospitals enjoy incremental benefits with the adoption of activity based costing beyond what is being provided by the traditional costing system. The study explores the relationship between activity based costing (ABC) and the measures of hospital performance-profitability revenue and cost containment in a corporate hospitalcare hospital in Hyderabad, India. A comparative analysis is attempted to check the benefits offered by the ABC in comparison to traditional costing system.

Keywords: Activity based costing (ABC) in hospital, Hyderabad, service industry, cost drivers.

Suggested Citation:

Habibi, Ali and Tati, Ravi Kumar and Asgari Alouj, Hosein and Abdolahi, Eskandar, Activity Based Costing Model in Laboratory of Care Hospital (2012). African Journal of Business Management, 6(23), 2012, 6811-6817 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3448989
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
S J Baxendale , V Dornbusch
Activity-based costing for a hospice
Strateg. Financ , volume 3 , p. 60 - 70 Posted: 2000
G Boer , D Jeter
What's new about modern manufacturing? Empirical evidence of manufacturing changes
J. Manage. Account. Res , issue 5 , p. 61 - 83 Posted: 1993
J M Brausch , T C Taylor
Who is accounting for the cost of capacity?
Manage. Account , volume 2 , p. 48 - 50 Posted: 1997
J A Brimson
Feature costing: Beyond ABC
J. Cost Manage , issue 1/2 , p. 6 - 12 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
813
RANK
564,093
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies