Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of U.S. Audit Partner Identification on Real Earnings Management

Posted: 14 Sep 2019

Lawrence Abbott

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

William L. Buslepp

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Katherine Gunny

University of Colorado at Denver

Aaron Mandell

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

Date Written: September 5, 2019

Abstract

After a lengthy and protracted debate, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) adopted Rule 3211 (commonly referred to as “Form AP”) and related amendments to its auditing standards regarding the identification of audit engagement partner and other accounting firms who take part in a public company audit (PCAOB 2015). The rules require disclosure of the engagement partner’s name and information about other accounting firms on the new PCAOB Form AP, Auditor Reporting of Certain Audit Participants. The PCAOB argued that disclosing audit partner identity would create greater accountability among audit partners, thereby increasing audit quality. Public accounting firms, most notably Big Four audit firms, voiced their dissent to the regulation, expressing doubt about incremental accountability and citing concerns about incremental, partner-specific legal liability. Extant, outcome-based, archival research using accruals as a proxy for audit quality to examine the effect of Rule 3211 on audit quality has produced decidedly mixed evidence. Our paper examines this issue from a different perspective. We examine whether Rule 3211 engendered differential audit partner accruals-based audit behavior, which would, in turn, impact client real earnings management. We find that real earnings management increased in the post-3211 regulatory environment. Our evidence speaks to the effects and unintended consequences of Rule 3211.

Keywords: audit partner identification, auditor reporting, real earnings management

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Abbott, Lawrence and Buslepp, William L. and Gunny, Katherine and Mandell, Aaron, The Effect of U.S. Audit Partner Identification on Real Earnings Management (September 5, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3448800 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3448800
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,724
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies