Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Intellectual Capital Disclosure: An Investigation on DS30 Firms in Bangladesh

Asian Journal of Accounting Perspectives Vol. 12, Issue 2, Page 27-48

Posted: 5 Sep 2019

Pappu Kumar Dey

The University of Newcastle

Mohammad Omar Faruq

Comilla University

Date Written: August 30, 2019

Abstract

Research Aim: The study aims to investigate intellectual capital disclosure (ICD) practices and its determinants in Bangladesh.

Design/Methodology/Approach: The top 30 firms known as DS30 companies that reflect around 51 percent of the total equity market capitalisation have been considered as a sample. Content analysis is used to extract the data from the annual report of the respective firm for the years 2013 to 2017. Multiple regression analysis is performed to identify the determinants of ICD.

Research Findings: This paper finds that board independence and globally affiliated auditors have a substantial positive impact on ICD. In contrast, board gender diversity documents marginally significant negative association with ICD. However, our examination does not show any significant impact of board size, leverage, profitability and firm size on ICD quality.

Theoretical Contribution/Originality: This study differs in its approach of narrowing down the items of ICD index to maintain the perspective of a developing country like Bangladesh. It is a longitudinal study and does not consider any particular industry of Bangladesh to identify the drivers of ICD.

Practitioner/Policy Implication: Policymakers and regulators could consider the factors identified in this paper for setting corporate reporting regulations, particularly corporate governance mechanisms.

Research Limitation: This study considered only the top 30 firms and 30 disclosure items. Our investigation is limited to only the annual reports of the respective companies.

Keywords: Bangladesh, DS30 companies, determinants, human capital, intellectual capital

JEL Classification: M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Dey, Pappu Kumar and Faruq, Mohammad Omar, Determinants of Intellectual Capital Disclosure: An Investigation on DS30 Firms in Bangladesh (August 30, 2019). Asian Journal of Accounting Perspectives Vol. 12, Issue 2, Page 27-48, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3448308
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
632
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies