Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Performance, Corporate Governance and Microfinance Institutions Sustainability in Nigeria

Equatorial Journal of Finance and Management Sciences, 2019; 3 (1):30 – 43

15 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2019

Collins Alobari

Kenule Saro Wiwa Polytechnic - Department of Banking and Finance

Felix N. Igbara

Rivers State Polytechnic

Barikui Tordee

Rivers State Polytechnic

Emmah Domale

Rivers State Polytechnic

Date Written: September 10, 2019

Abstract

This study examined the relationship between financial performance and Microfinance sustainability, with interest on the impact of corporate governance in improving or otherwise of financial performance of microfinance banks in Nigeria. This interest was provoked by the fact that notwithstanding the introduction of corporate governance in Nigeria, there are still cases of the folding up of many microfinance institutions. Therefore, the study sought answers to: what is the relationship between financial performance and microfinance sustainability? What is the impact of board size and composition on financial performance? And what is the impact of the composition of board committees on financial performance? Using quantitative empirical method on selected microfinance banks in the South East Nigeria, the study employed the Ordinary Least Square (OLS) analysis on secondary data collected from financial reports of the selected banks for a period of thirteen (13) years (2005-2017). The study used the board of directors as the proxy for corporate governance, with Board size and composition as independent variables and Profit after Tax as dependent variables. The result shows that the link between board size and profitability does not imply board size to increase profitability as number of shareholders has negative relationship with profit before tax. Rather, the result found a positive relationship between equity of MFIs and profit after tax, which means that the higher the equity of MFIs, the higher their profitability. Therefore, the study recommends that the MFIs should concentrate more on raising share capital as well as constituting efficient boards and committees for effective corporate governance that will result in the sustainability of the MFIs.

Suggested Citation:

Alobari, Collins and Igbara, Felix N. and Tordee, Barikui and Domale, Emmah, Financial Performance, Corporate Governance and Microfinance Institutions Sustainability in Nigeria (September 10, 2019). Equatorial Journal of Finance and Management Sciences, 2019; 3 (1):30 – 43, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3450951 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3450951
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
581
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,974
RANK
107,499
2 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Corporate Finance & Governance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies