Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Corporate Tax Aggressiveness Matter in Good Corporate Governance-Corporate Financial Performance Relationship? Evidence from Indonesia

International Journal of Civil Engineering and Technology 10(7), 2019, pp. 235-252

18 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2019

Supriyati

Airlangga University, Surabaya, Indonesia And Lecture in STIE Perbanas University, Surabaya, Indonesia

Bambang Tjahjadi

Airlangga University

Heru Tjaraka

Airlangga University, Surabaya, Indonesia

Date Written: September 10, 2019

Abstract

This study aims to investigate the direct impact of good corporate governance on corporate financial performance, and, if so, whether the relationship is mediated by corporate tax aggressiveness. This issue is crucial for the Indonesian banking companies because since the year of 2011, management of banking companies have the obligation to implement and report their corporate governance. This study is designed as quantitative research employing the structural equation model. A mediation research model is developed to test the mediation effect of corporate tax aggressiveness on corporate governance and financial performance relationship. The sample is derived from the publicly listed banking firms on the Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) for the period of 2012-2017 resulting 208 observable empirical data. This study provides empirical evidence that corporate governance has a direct effect on financial performance of publicly listed banks on the IDX. Further analysis reveals that tax aggressiveness mediates the relationship between corporate governance and financial performance. This implies that tax aggressiveness might be one of strategies for banking companies to minimize tax burden in order to increase profit. This study contributes to the growing research exploring tax aggressiveness, especially in banking companies. This study explores the use of tax aggressiveness as the mediation variable and the use of taxable income as one measure of tax aggressiveness.

Keywords: good corporate governance, tax aggressiveness, financial performance, banks

Suggested Citation:

, Supriyati and Tjahjadi, Bambang and Tjaraka, Heru, Does Corporate Tax Aggressiveness Matter in Good Corporate Governance-Corporate Financial Performance Relationship? Evidence from Indonesia (September 10, 2019). International Journal of Civil Engineering and Technology 10(7), 2019, pp. 235-252, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3451029
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
929
RANK
381,025
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies