Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Management Support on the Quality of Accounting Information Systems and Its Impact on the Quality of Accounting Information (In Private Higher Education in Bandung City)

International Journal of Mechanical Engineering and Technology 10(3), 2019, pp. 450–456

7 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2019

Arlis Dewi Kuraesin

Padjadjaran University, Dipati Ukur Steet, PO box 40132, Bandung, Indonesia STIE Muhammadiyah Jakarta

Winwin Yadiati

Universitas Padjajaran

Memed Sueb

Padjadjaran University - Department of Accounting

Tettet Fitrijanti

Universitas Padjajaran

Date Written: September 11, 2019

Abstract

This article aims to determine management support, the quality of accounting information systems and the quality of accounting information. The method used in this research is descriptive and verification method (verificative research). Based on the results of testing the hypothesis by using Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) with the Partial Least Square - Path Modeling approach with the help of XL-STAT software, there is a relationship between top management support variables and the quality of accounting information systems reflected in the value of 1.0247. Furthermore, the quality of accounting information systems has an impact on the quality of accounting information reflected in the value of 0.8104. The results of this test prove that top management support influences the quality of accounting information systems and has an impact on the quality of accounting information.

Keywords: top management support, quality of accounting information systems, quality of accounting information

Suggested Citation:

Kuraesin, Arlis Dewi and Yadiati, Winwin and Sueb, Memed and Fitrijanti, Tettet, The Effect of Management Support on the Quality of Accounting Information Systems and Its Impact on the Quality of Accounting Information (In Private Higher Education in Bandung City) (September 11, 2019). International Journal of Mechanical Engineering and Technology 10(3), 2019, pp. 450–456, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3451904
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
L Whitten , Jeffrey , D Bentley , Lonnie
System Analysis and Design Methods Posted: 2007
G H Bodnar , W S Hopwood
Accounting System Information
Bost. Pers. Educ Posted: 2010
A Susanto
Accounting Information Systems: Development of Risk Control Structure Posted: 2013
K Kelton , K R Fleischmann , W A Wallace
Trust in digital information
J. Am. Soc. Inf. Sci. Technol , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 363 - 374 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
749
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,562
RANK
77,600
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies