Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Rise and Decline of Industrial Foundations as Controlling Owners of Swedish Listed Firms: The Role of Tax Incentives

IFN Working Paper No. 1279

33 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2019 Last revised: 5 Mar 2020

Magnus Henrekson

Research Institute of Industrial Economics (IFN)

Dan Johansson

Örebro University School of Business

Mikael Stenkula

Research Institute of Industrial Economics (IFN)

Date Written: March 3, 2020

Abstract

Beginning in the interwar period, industrial foundations became a vehicle for the corporate control of large listed firms in Sweden, but in the 1990s they were replaced by wealthy individuals who either directly own controlling blocks or who own them through holding companies. We study potential explanations for this change and propose two taxation-related candidates: shifts in the relative effective taxation across owner types and the dismantling of the inheritance taxation that prevented the generational transfer of the ownership of large controlling blocks. Our analysis exploits newly computed marginal effective capital income tax rates across capital owners, accounting for all relevant factors, including rules governing tax exemptions. We show that the 1990–91 tax reform, abolition of the wealth tax for controlling owners in 1997, 2003 tax exemption of dividends and capital gains on listed stock for holding companies with a voting or equity share of at least 10 percent, and abolition of the inheritance and gift taxes in 2004 reversed the rules of the game. Recently, control has largely been wielded through direct ownership, and the role of foundations is rapidly declining. These findings point to the importance of tax incentives for the use of foundations as the control vehicles of listed firms.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Entrepreneurship, Family firms, Foundations, Owner-level taxation

JEL Classification: H20, K34, L26, N44

Suggested Citation:

Henrekson, Magnus and Johansson, Dan and Stenkula, Mikael, The Rise and Decline of Industrial Foundations as Controlling Owners of Swedish Listed Firms: The Role of Tax Incentives (March 3, 2020). IFN Working Paper No. 1279, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3451441
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
J Agell , P Englund , J Södersten
Svensk skattepolitik i teori och praktik
SOU 1995:104, Skattereformen 1990-1991 -En utvärdering Posted: 1995
J Agnblad , E Berglöf , P Högfeldt , H Svancar
Ownership and control in Sweden: Strong owners, weak minorities, and social control
The control of corporate Europe , p. 228 - 258 Posted: 2001
Crossref
V Bergström
Studies in Swedish postwar industrial investments (Doctoral Dissertation) Posted: 1982
P.-O Bjuggren , J E Eklund , D Wiberg
Ownership structure, control and firm performance: The effects of vote-differentiated shares
Applied Financial Economics , volume 17 , p. 1323 - 1334 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
938
RANK
841,369
5 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies