Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Socially Responsible Investors, Firm Value and Firm Risk

30 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2019

Othar Kordsachia

University of Liechtenstein

Date Written: September 10, 2019

Abstract

This paper studies the association between ownership by socially responsible investors (SRIs) and firm outcomes. In particular, we examine their impact on firm value and firm risk. Since the inclusion of environmental, social, and governmental (ESG) issues in investment decisions is not directly observable, we define SRIs as signatories to the United Nation supported Principles for Responsible Investing (UN PRI). We argue that these investors possess a unique multi-attribute value function, which not only facilitates active, long-term monitoring, but also creates greater interest alignment between them and other stakeholders of the firm. We find that SRI ownership of listed European companies is linked with greater firm value and lower firm risk. Inferences are derived from panel data analysis based on 9,444 firm-year observations over a sample period from 2008-2017. Our findings are robust to a battery of robustness tests and lend support for a possible causal relationship between SRI ownership and firm outcomes. This study is relevant for the ongoing debate about regulation on sustainable finance and investing in Europe.

Keywords: SRI, Firm Value, Firm Risk, Ownership Structure, Corporate Governance, Monitoring

JEL Classification: G30, M14

Suggested Citation:

Kordsachia, Othar, Socially Responsible Investors, Firm Value and Firm Risk (September 10, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3451115
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,372
RANK
322,813
123 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies