Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Lock-in, Liquidity, and the Separation of Ownership and Control

Columbia Law and Economics Working Paper No. 607

43 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2019

Giuseppe Dari‐Mattiacci

University of Amsterdam; Tinbergen Institute; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: August 28, 2019

Abstract

Who should own firm assets, the collection of investors or a distinct legal entity? In a partnership, individual investors own firm assets and retain the right to unilaterally withdraw their capital at will. If, instead, firm assets are owned by a distinct legal entity (the corporation), investors implicitly waive this right, locking capital in the firm. Capital lock-in facilitates long-term investments but carries a risk of inefficient continuation of unprofitable projects. Withdrawal at will can lead to the inefficient liquidation of profitable projects. In this paper I provide a theory of the capital lock-in and the choice of organizational form.


Keywords: liquidity, ownership and control, theory of the firm, legal entity, capital lock-in

JEL Classification: G30, K22

Suggested Citation:

Dari-Mattiacci, Giuseppe, Capital Lock-in, Liquidity, and the Separation of Ownership and Control (August 28, 2019). Columbia Law and Economics Working Paper No. 607, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3452250 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3452250
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
312
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,419
RANK
222,024
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies