Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Board Independence Reduce Informed Short Selling Prior to Earnings Announcements? Evidence From Quasi-Natural Experiment

59 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2019

Suchi Mishra

Florida International University (FIU) - Department of Finance

Anisur Rahman

Westminster College

Arun Upadhyay

Florida International University

Date Written: September 14, 2019

Abstract

Independent boards improve financial disclosure quality and reduce the opacity of information between insiders and outsiders, which lowers the incentives of informed traders that benefit from the information gap. We test this conjecture by estimating short sellers’ predictions of the direction of unexpected quarterly earnings. We find that short sellers’ predictions are less accurate in firms with independent boards relative to firms with non-independent boards. Furthermore, short-selling excess returns in firms with independent boards are insignificant. A quasi-natural experiment using the exogenous shock to board independence represented by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 provides further support for these findings. We also show that a decrease in both information asymmetry and information leakage in firms with independent boards are potential reasons for a decrease in the accuracy of short sellers’ predictions. Further analyses show that the effects of independent boards are stronger in firms with larger information asymmetry and also in firms that have poor governance mechanisms. Sub-sample analyses suggest that these results are not driven by the idiosyncrasies of unusual periods such as the 2007–2009 global financial crisis.

Keywords: short selling, board independence, unexpected earnings

JEL Classification: G28, G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Mishra, Suchismita and Rahman, Anisur and Upadhyay, Arun, Does Board Independence Reduce Informed Short Selling Prior to Earnings Announcements? Evidence From Quasi-Natural Experiment (September 14, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3453858 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3453858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,097
RANK
631,426
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies