Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Interlocks, Career Prospects, and Corporate Social Responsibility

Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2019 Last revised: 15 May 2023

Lai Van Vo

Western Connecticut State University

Huong T. T. Le

Northeastern Illinois University

Youngbin Kim

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 15, 2023

Abstract

This paper investigates how director career concerns affect the relation between board interlocks and corporate social responsibility (CSR). We first document that firms with central or well-connected boards of directors tend to invest more in CSR. We then show that the positive relation between board connectedness and CSR is significantly more pronounced for firms whose directors’ future careers would benefit more from CSR, such as those with better corporate governance, firms with larger investments in research and development (R&D), or firms with high product market threats. Our findings suggest that director career concerns play an important role in the board of directors’ decision in CSR investments.

Keywords: board connectedness, board interlock, corporate social responsibility, director career concern, director reputation

JEL Classification: G30, G14, L14, Z13

Suggested Citation:

Vo, Lai Van and Le, Huong T. T. and Kim, Youngbin, Board Interlocks, Career Prospects, and Corporate Social Responsibility (May 15, 2023). Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3453776 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3453776
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
B Al-Dah
Director interlocks and the strategic pacing of CSR activities
Management Decision , volume 57 , issue 10 , p. 2782 - 2798 Posted: 2019
A Amin , L Chourou , S Kamal , M Malik , Y Zhao
It's who you know that counts: Board connectedness and CSR performance
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 64 Posted: 2020
A Andersen , A Garel , A Gilbert , A Tourani-Rad
Social capital, human capital, and board appointments
Global Finance Journal , volume 54 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,840
RANK
266,546
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies