Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Responsible Governance Broadening the Corporate Governance Discourse to Include Positive Duties and Collective Action

Van Tulder, Rob and van Mil, Eveline, Responsible Governance Broadening the Corporate Governance Discourse to Include Positive Duties and Collective Action (September 16, 2019). In: Oliver Laasch, Roy Suddaby, R. Edward Freeman and Dima Jamali, (eds.) Research Handbook of Responsible Management. Edw

29 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2019 Last revised: 28 Dec 2020

Rob van Tulder

Rotterdam School of Management

Eveline van Mil

Independent

Date Written: September 16, 2019

Abstract

Responsible governance increasingly poses a multi-sector, multi-level challenge for managers. It relates to the effective management of a large number of societal interfaces along which companies, government and civil society organizations have to develop distinct means, ways and principles for dealing with sustainability issues. Most sustainability issues supersede the boundaries of the archetypical roles and primary responsibilities of each of the societal spheres (state, market, communities) from which organizations tend to derive primary responsibilities. Hybrid organizational forms are maturing that have taken up these challenges, but these forms face sizable governance challenges as well. The corporate governance discourse consequently requires broadening and nuance at the same time. The agenda for ‘responsible governance’ should thereby not only deal with traditional corporate governance issues – aimed at correcting improper or irresponsible behaviour – but should also consider how to address wider issues of sustainability, aimed at driving and stimulating positive responsible behaviour. This contribution shows that this challenge requires parallel insights from two angles: a macro and a micro point of view. We construct a societally founded taxonomy of organizational forms and conceptualize four tiers of responsible governance challenges for organizations to delineate an agenda for further research.

Keywords: responsible governance, negative and positive fiduciary duty, primary and secondary stakeholders, agency, institutional logics and societal spheres, negative and positive externalities, collective action

Suggested Citation:

van Tulder, Rob and van Mil, Eveline, Responsible Governance Broadening the Corporate Governance Discourse to Include Positive Duties and Collective Action (September 16, 2019). Van Tulder, Rob and van Mil, Eveline, Responsible Governance Broadening the Corporate Governance Discourse to Include Positive Duties and Collective Action (September 16, 2019). In: Oliver Laasch, Roy Suddaby, R. Edward Freeman and Dima Jamali, (eds.) Research Handbook of Responsible Management. Edw, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3454489 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3454489
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, information costs, and economic organization
The American Economic Review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Battilana , M Lee
Advancing research on hybrid organizing-Insights from the study of social enterprises
The Academy of Management Annals , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 397 - 441 Posted: 2014
Crossref
J Battilana , B Leca , E Boxenbaum
How Actors Change Institutions: Towards a Theory of Institutional Entrepreneurship
Academy of Management Annals , volume 3 , p. 65 - 107 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A C Bluedorn
The Human Organization of Time. Temporal Realities and Experience Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
585
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,390
RANK
106,838
3 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies