Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Adoption of the Integrated Reporting Framework: A Perspective of Supervisory Board Members on the Drivers and Benefits

50 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2019

Brigitte de Graaff

VU University Amsterdam

Bert Steens

VU University

Date Written: September 16, 2019

Abstract

Integrated Reporting has gained increasing interest from scholars and business executives over the past decade. Prior research points at external market conditions, internal organizational conditions and expected organization-level benefits as three categories of factors that influence the motivation of companies to adopt Integrated Reporting. While prior research largely addresses these categories separately and has produced little empirical evidence so far, we investigate the influence of these three categories of factors and observed organization-level benefits on the motivation to adopt Integrated Reporting, using unique survey data from 62 currently active and candidate supervisory board members of Dutch companies. We find that the respondents who have experienced the impact of Integrated Reporting claim to observe benefits of IR in their work practice. Furthermore, we find that external market conditions and observed benefits of Integrated Reporting contribute to the respondents’ motivation to favor the adoption of Integrated Reporting. Our study does not confirm the expected influence of internal organizational conditions (company size, profitability, growth opportunities, reporting practices and supervisory board characteristics) on the motivation to adopt Integrated Reporting. Our study contributes to the body of knowledge of Integrated Reporting as empirical evidence on motives and impacts of Integrated Reporting is hardly available. Our study can be used by both practitioners and academics to substantiate assumptions and expectations on the impacts of adopting Integrated Reporting.

Keywords: Integrated Reporting, Supervisory Board Members, Benefits of Integrated Reporting, Integrated Thinking, Survey, IIRC

Suggested Citation:

de Graaff, Brigitte and Steens, H. B. A., The Adoption of the Integrated Reporting Framework: A Perspective of Supervisory Board Members on the Drivers and Benefits (September 16, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3454615 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3454615
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
S Abraham , P J Shrives
Improving the relevance of risk factor disclosure in corporate annual reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 46 , p. 91 - 107 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Z Azam , K M Warraich , S H Awan
One report: Bringing change in corporate reporting through integration of financial and non-financial performance disclosure
International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 50 - 71 Posted: 2011
Crossref
D A Belsley , E Kuh , R E Welsch
Regression Diagnostics: Identifying influential data and sources of collinearity Posted: 1980
C Bernardi , A W Stark
Environmental, social and governance disclosure, integrated reporting, and the accuracy of analyst forecasts
The British Accounting Review , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 16 - 31 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
261
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,478
RANK
267,591
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies