Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Test of the Agency Theory in Corporate Governance of SACCOs in Uganda

14 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2019

Kibs Boaz Muhanguzi

Makerere University

Date Written: September 16, 2019

Abstract

In organizations, the principal (owners) hire agents (management) for the purpose of producing goods and services. Each party in a firm has a unique goal. For example, as the principal seeks to maximize dividends, agents cherish utility maximization from their status and claims for non-pecuniary benefits. While executing their roles and obligations, management may consider fulfilling their interests at the expense of the owners, and vice versa. Management misconduct results in agency problems. This study tests the relevance of the agency theory and examines whether existing corporate governance mechanisms address agency problems in Savings and Credit Cooperatives (SACCOs) in Uganda. Inquiry follows a mixed research (both quantitative and qualitative) design by use of self-administered questionnaires and personal interviews. The key informants are selected through a stratified sampling procedure. Questions are asked about the agency problems emanating from: the utility of owners and management, financial challenges, and information asymmetry; and governance mechanisms. Respondents’ views and perceptions are analyzed using a 5-point Likert scale. From a sample of 252 SACCOs, each with a minimum of ten years of experience, findings show that majority (40%) operate in Western Uganda, have a minimum of 1,000 shareholders, 65.1% of the Board has at least a first degree, and a dominance male (91.7%) in management. The average welfare index for the owners (4=bad welfare) is lower than that of the management (2.7=good welfare) signaling presence of conflicts. The board composition shows less CEO duality, bigger size, more independence, higher remuneration, and presence of audit committees. Examining whether this structure impacts on the agency conflicts, the marginal effects from the probit regression indicate that the board size, remuneration, and independence have a high likelihood of reducing the principal-agent problems while the audit committee yields a reverse sign. Therefore, there is need for the adoption of good corporate governance practices in SACCOs for survival.

Keywords: Corporate governance; Agency theory, Principal-Agency conflicts; SACCOs in Uganda

Suggested Citation:

Muhanguzi, Kibs Boaz, An Empirical Test of the Agency Theory in Corporate Governance of SACCOs in Uganda (September 16, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3454396 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3454396
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
***significant At
)% Source: Field data
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
868
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,592
RANK
63,674
3 Citations
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies