Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Codes of Conduct of German Public-Listed Companies: Content, Enforcement, and Implementation

51 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2019

Thomas Stöber

Heinrich Heine University Duesseldorf

Peter Kotzian

Heinrich Heine University Dusseldorf; Technical University of Darmstadt

Date Written: September 17, 2019

Abstract

Apart from a few comparative surveys focusing on the largest companies, there are no content analyses of the codes of conduct of German companies. Due to country-specific differences in the legal, economic, and cultural environment, results of content analyses can hardly be transferred from one country to another. Refining existing coding schemes to include upcoming topics, like privacy consideration, but also code enforcement and implementation, we analyze the content, patterns, and anteceding background factors. Our findings indicate that while codes are very common nowadays, there are substantial differences in the degree to which codes address specific topics and functions. We find a single underlying dimension: the intensity of regulation. Codes are most elaborate in terms of what actors are supposed to do, while issues like guidance and enforcement are dealt with in less detail. Endorsement of the code by the top management is also quite low. As for background factors like sector and stock market segment, we find that regulatory intensity differs in line with stock market segment, which is not a proxy for company size but rather for the presence of companies in the public and regarding the code’s role, e.g., the preservation of a company’s image. Our study contributes to the literature by examining codes’ content of the largest German listed companies, which allows for both, international level comparisons and comparisons over time. In addition, we modified and disclosed a frequently used coding scheme that can be used for future research. Finally, we contribute to the business practice by generating a basis for benchmarking their code and giving recommendations for reconsidering their content and design.

Keywords: code of conduct, content analysis, code implementation, code enforcement, code clarification, endorsement by top management, Germany

JEL Classification: M14

Suggested Citation:

Stöber, Thomas and Kotzian, Peter, Codes of Conduct of German Public-Listed Companies: Content, Enforcement, and Implementation (September 17, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3455206 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3455206
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
S R Barth
Corporate ethics: The business code of conduct for ethical employees Posted: 2003
Crossref
G C S Benson
Codes of ethics
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 8 , issue 5 , p. 305 - 319 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Bundeskartellamt
The Bundeskartellamt in Bonn. Organisation, tasks and activities Posted: 2011
Bundeskartellamt
Erfolgreiche Kartellverfolgung -Nutzen für Wirtschaft und Verbraucher Posted: 2016-11-20
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,191
RANK
495,993
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies