Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Guidance on Strategic Information: Investor-Management Disagreement and Firm Intrinsic Value

Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming DOI: 10.1016/j.jbankfin.2019.105632

57 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2019

Anna Agapova

Florida Atlantic University; Florida Atlantic University

Nikanor Volkov

Mercer University

Date Written: September 3, 2019

Abstract

We investigate the decision by corporate management to voluntarily disclose information that pertains to a firm’s strategy. We find the likelihood of disclosure to be a tradeoff between the benefit of reducing information asymmetry and the cost of investors disagreeing with the strategy; this cost varies with the firm’s intrinsic value. Higher levels of investor-management disagreement and of information asymmetry increase the likelihood that managers will disclose strategic information; those at firms with higher intrinsic value, however, are less likely to do so. Our results vary in statistical significance across different proxy specifications, but hold qualitatively. They are robust to the use of exogenous shocks to investor-management disagreement and information asymmetry. The evidence supports a causal link between investor-management disagreement and strategic disclosure.

Keywords: irm strategy; disclosure of strategic information; information asymmetry; investor-management disagreement; firm value; raise of capital

JEL Classification: G30, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Agapova, Anna and Volkov, Nikanor, Guidance on Strategic Information: Investor-Management Disagreement and Firm Intrinsic Value (September 3, 2019). Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming DOI: 10.1016/j.jbankfin.2019.105632, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3455584
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
790
RANK
735,901
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies