Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Chief Accounting Officers and Audit Efficiency

Asian Review of Accounting, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2019

Hsiao-Tang Hsu

Texas A&M University - Corpus Christi

Sarfraz Khan

University of Louisiana at Lafayette

Date Written: June 30, 2019

Abstract

This study is to investigate the roles of chief accounting officer (CAO) on the efficiency of auditing process and to empirically examine the association between separate CAO appointment and audit report lag. Based on the firms listed in the U.S. market from 2004 to 2012, we examine and find that the presence of a separate CAO significantly reduces audit report lag. With the appointment of a new auditor, the presence of a separate CAO is associated with lower audit report lag, suggesting the moderating effect of separate CAOs on the relationship between auditor change and audit delay.


Keywords: Chief accounting officer, Audit effort, Audit efficiency, Audit report lag

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Hsu, Hsiao-Tang and Khan, Sarfraz, Chief Accounting Officers and Audit Efficiency (June 30, 2019). Asian Review of Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3455076
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
J L Abernathy , M Barnes , C Stefaniak , A Weisbarth
An international perspective on audit report lag: A synthesis of the literature and opportunities for future research
International Journal of Auditing , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 100 - 127 Posted: 2017
Crossref
J L Abernathy , T R Kubick , A Masli
Evidence on the relation between managerial ability and financial reporting timeliness
International Journal of Auditing , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 185 - 196 Posted: 2018
Crossref
A A Acito , C E Hogan , A J Imdieke
Auditing Standards No. 2 versus Auditing Standard No. 5: Implications for integrated audits and financial reporting quality Posted: 2014-05
A Agrawal , T Cooper
Insider trading before accounting scandals
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 34 , issue C , p. 169 - 190 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,204
RANK
505,214
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies