Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Is the Role of the Board-Level Technology Committee?

13 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2019

Steven Harrast

Central Michigan University - School of Accounting

Amy Swaney

Central Michigan University

Date Written: June 6, 2019

Abstract

The board-level technology committee (TC) could play a significant role in enterprise risk management. Unfortunately, only about ten percent of public companies have chartered such a committee. Far from being a monolith, companies that charter a TC often use it to control strategic and/or operational risk. The more popular option is strategic risk management. There is evidence that the TC mitigates the negative market reaction to data breaches (Higgs, et al 2016). Based on a review of fifty existing TC charters, TCs today focus mainly on strategic risk — the risk associated with strategic product technology development.

Keywords: technology committee, committee charter, data breaches

Suggested Citation:

Harrast, Steven and Swaney, Amy, What Is the Role of the Board-Level Technology Committee? (June 6, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3456770 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3456770
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Analogic
Analogic Corporation Technology Committee Charter Posted: 2018
Fedex
Information Technology Oversight Committee Posted: 2018
J L Higgs , R E Pinkster , T J Smith , G R Young
The relationship between board-level technology committees and reported security breaches
National Association of Corporate Directors (NACD) (2011) NACD White Paper: Taming Information Technology Risk: A New Framework for Boards of Directors , volume 30 , p. 79 - 98 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Spencer Stewart
Posted: 2017
Load more
2 Citations
Valerio Lemma
FinTech Regulation
, p. 143 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Sergeja Slapničar , Micheal Axelsen , Ivano Bongiovanni , David Stockdale
A Pathway Model to Five Lines of Accountability in Cybersecurity Governance
54 Pages · Posted: 4 Aug 2022 · Last revised: 4 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 178
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,098
RANK
475,518
2 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies