Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Effects of Disclosure Regulation: Evidence from U.S. Import Competition

59 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2019 Last revised: 20 Jan 2020

Yucheng (John) Yang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 1, 2019

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of disclosure regulation on import competition. Using the segment disclosure regulation (SFAS 131) as a plausibly exogenous shock that increases the supply of mandatory information about U.S. product markets, I uncover an increase in U.S. import competition at the industry level. Consistent with foreign competition, the effect is more pronounced in industries with high labor intensity and in industries with low competition, where foreign firms have a greater incentive to compete with U.S. firms. Consistent with learning from disclosures, the effect is stronger in industries with high demand uncertainty and in industries with high trade policy uncertainty, where learning to reduce uncertainty is more beneficial. In addition, I provide evidence that the segment disclosure regulation generates negative spillover effects on the performance and investment of U.S. firms that are not directly affected by the regulation through its impact on import competition.

Keywords: real effects, disclosure regulation, segment disclosure, import competition, spillover effects

JEL Classification: G10, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Yucheng, Real Effects of Disclosure Regulation: Evidence from U.S. Import Competition (October 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3456743 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3456743
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
D Acemoglu , D Autor , D Dorn , G H Hanson , P Price
Import competition and the great U.S. employment sag of the
J. Lab. Econ , volume 34 , p. 141 - 198 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
The limitations of industry concentration measures constructed with Compustat data: implications for finance research
J. Account. Econ , volume 22 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2009
Crossref
T Allen
Information frictions in trade
Econometrica , volume 82 , p. 2041 - 2083 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Amiti , A K Khandelwal
Import competition and quality upgrading
Rev. Econ. Stat , volume 95 , p. 476 - 490 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
STEPHEN GLAESER , JAMES D. OMARTIAN
Public Firm Presence, Financial Reporting, and the Decline of U.S. Manufacturing
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 3 , p. 1085 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
456
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,329
RANK
144,892
1 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies