Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Succession Gap and Firm Performance

50 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2019

Renzhu Zhang

CEFGroup & Department of Accountancy and Finance, University of Otago

Gurmeet S. Bhabra

University of Otago - Department of Accountancy and Finance

Hsin-I Chou

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University) - School of Economics, Finance and Marketing

Eric K. M. Tan

University of Queensland

Date Written: July 18, 2019

Abstract

In this study, we examine the effect of succession-induced gaps in CEO characteristics on subsequent firm performance. We show that a gap index constructed using differences in CEO attributes between the predecessor and the successor leads to deteriorating subsequent firm performance when the succession event itself is characterized as disruptive. However, under non-forced succession and when pre-succession performance has been good, a change in characteristics contributes positively to enhancing subsequent firm performance. Further analysis of the channels suggests that radically different CEOs are more likely to bring with them a higher proportion of co-opted directors, make downsizing and business divesting decisions, and lead firms characterized by higher levels of post- succession strategic instability when there is a mandate for change. Overall, our findings demonstrate that tapping successors who bring in a new set of attributes that are markedly different from those of their predecessors are not always value-enhancing. This is especially the case under forced succession and when the pre-succession firm performance is poor.

Keywords: CEO, Succession, Gap Index, Performance

JEL Classification: G30, G32, J62, J63

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Renzhu and Bhabra, Gurmeet S. and Chou, Hsin-I and Tan, Eric K. M., CEO Succession Gap and Firm Performance (July 18, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3456866 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3456866
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
113 References
R Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Understanding the relationship between founderCEOs and firm performance
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 136 - 150 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R B Adams , P Funk
Beyond the Glass Ceiling: Does Gender Matter? Management Science , volume 58 , p. 219 - 235 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R B Adams , A N Licht , L Sagiv
Shareholders and stakeholders: How do directors decide?
Strategic Management Journal , volume 32 , issue 12 , p. 1331 - 1355 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber , T Tsoulouhas
Are outsiders handicapped in CEO successions
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 619 - 644 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
200
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,807
RANK
347,387
1 Citations
113 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies