Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Through Voice and Exit

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 633/2019

75 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2019 Last revised: 14 Nov 2019

Marco Becht

Solvay Brussels School of Economics and Management (ULB); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Julian R. Franks

London Business School - Institute of Finance and Accounting; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Hannes F. Wagner

Bocconi University - Department of Finance; Bocconi University - IGIER - Innocenzo Gasparini Institute for Economic Research; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: October 1, 2019

Abstract

How do active managers engage with portfolio firms? And, what role does monitoring and engagement play in their trading decisions? We use proprietary data from a large UK active asset manager with a long-standing commitment to stewardship to answer these questions. Our sample, based on nine years of daily data, provides a detailed picture of how fund managers’ decisions are influenced by monitoring target firms, especially through private engagements. Internal analysts and a centralised stewardship team monitor the board and management and place portfolio companies on a watch list when there are governance or other concerns. The asset manager engages more intensively with the watch list, abstaining or voting against management proposals in a third of meetings. More intensive engagement and negative votes against are associated with internal analyst downgrades and with exit by fund managers. We provide evidence that monitoring and engagement generate information advantages, which in turn contribute to alpha. Our results provide strong support for voice influencing exit.

Keywords: asset management, active ownership, corporate stewardship, shareholder monitoring, shareholder engagement, analyst research, institutional investors, corporate governance, voice and exit

JEL Classification: G11, G14, G23, G34

Suggested Citation:

Becht, Marco and Franks, Julian R. and Wagner, Hannes F., Corporate Governance Through Voice and Exit (October 1, 2019). European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 633/2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3456626 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3456626
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Titman Grinblatt , Jegadeesh Chen , Sias Bennett , Starks
Wermers Posted: 1997
Kho Choe , Stulz
To overcome the quarterly frequency limitation of US ownership disclosure, Sias, Starks, and Titman (2006) use monthly return data to make inferences about monthly changes in institutional ownership from quarterly institutional holdings. Campbell, Ramadorai, and Schwartz (2009) use intraday trading data to infer daily institutional trading and identify the best match to observed quarterly holdings data from 13-Fs
While under SEC rules, institutional investors are required to disclose equity positions every quarter in 13-F filings, in other countries institutional ownership may be recorded almost in real time, such as in Finland (Grinblatt and Keloharju, 2000) and South Korea Posted: 1999
For its workers, Sports Direct offers zero-hours contracts; its bosses get mega-bonuses
Subsequently, the re-election of the Chairman was successfully opposed by a majority of the free float , volume 35
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,523
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,315
RANK
28,338
9 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow

Wealth Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies