Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Control Conflict, Costs and Activism

IUP Journal of Corporate Governance , Vol XVII-4 , p 26-35, 2018

Posted: 30 Sep 2019

Shital Jhunjhunwala

Delhi School of economics

Date Written: October 1, 2018

Abstract

The article examines different forms of ownership and control to identify costs associated with alternate control structures. It extends the Agency Cost theory and Principal cost theory to determine the conflicts created by each control mechanism. Control structures may be categories into Managerial, Working and Majority Control resulting in either principal costs, agency costs or conflict costs. Based on the relationship between and among the shareholders and directors conflicts can take the form of principal – agent cost, agent – agent cost or principal – principal cost. Firms with managerial control face principal-agent and agent-agent conflict, those with working control encounter conflict among block shareholders and small shareholders and firms with majority control are besieged with majority-minority conflict. Shareholders can address these conflicts of interest through activism. The success of activism is dependent on the degree of activism which may be a nudge, a shove or a punch

Keywords: Managerial Control, Working Control, Majority Control, Principal- Principal Cost, Agent-Agent Cost, Activism, voice, exit

JEL Classification: M19

Suggested Citation:

Jhunjhunwala, Shital, Control Conflict, Costs and Activism (October 1, 2018). IUP Journal of Corporate Governance , Vol XVII-4 , p 26-35, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3456459
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
477
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies