Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should the CEO Pay Ratio be Regulated?

Anginer, Deniz, Liu, Jinjing, Schipani, Cindy A. and Seyhun, H. Nejat, Should the CEO Pay Ratio Be Regulated? 45 Journal of Corporation Law (Forthcoming)

45 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2019 Last revised: 20 Mar 2020

Deniz Anginer

Simon Fraser University (SFU)

Jinjing Liu

Moravian University

Cindy A. Schipani

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

H. Nejat Seyhun

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Date Written: March 28, 2019

Abstract


Starting from January 2017, all publicly listed firms in the United States are required to disclose a pay ratio of annual CEO compensation to the median employee compensation (Pay Ratio). Opponents of this legislation have argued that this additional Pay Ratio disclosure would simply add to the costs of compliance without providing any new information to the market over and above the existing CEO Pay Slice variable, known as the ratio of CEO’s pay to top five executives’ compensation. Using hand-collected data, this paper finds that both variables are related to CEO power, but the Pay Ratio variable provides new and additional information over and above the Pay Slice variable. Furthermore, the Pay Ratio variable is more informative about the agency costs excessive CEO power imposes on shareholders. The cost of capital increases significantly as Pay Ratio increases and Pay Ratio dominates and eliminates the explanatory power of Pay Slice. Our empirical finding suggests that to understand the costs imposed on shareholders by excessive CEO power, we also need to pay attention to the Pay Ratio variable.

Keywords: Pay ratio; Pay slice; CEO power; Cost of capital

JEL Classification: G38, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Anginer, Deniz and Liu, Jinjing and Schipani, Cindy A. and Seyhun, H. Nejat, Should the CEO Pay Ratio be Regulated? (March 28, 2019). Anginer, Deniz, Liu, Jinjing, Schipani, Cindy A. and Seyhun, H. Nejat, Should the CEO Pay Ratio Be Regulated? 45 Journal of Corporation Law (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3457527
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Out of the Ruins, THE ECONOMIST Posted: 2010-03-25
Crossref
, John Redwood
No, That Would Hurt Everyone
WALL ST. J Posted: 2003-06-06
E G See , Stefan Baron , ; J Wall St
Rhineland Capitalism's Last Hurrah Posted: 1999-11-26
John Plender
)(looking into Germany's capitalism structure)
FIN. TIMES Posted: 2003-02-21
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
473
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,390
RANK
138,678
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies