Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond Numbers and Financials: Accounting and Corporate Sustainability

FGIC 1st Conference on Governance & Integrity, 2017

13 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2019

Zalailah Salleh

Universiti Malaysia Terengganu (UMT)

Saed Sulub

Universiti Malaysia Terengganu

Hafiza Aishah Hashim

Universiti Malaysia Terengganu (UMT)

Date Written: April 03, 2017

Abstract

With the evolution of industrialization and the expansion of corporations, there has been much concern about the protection of “others” interest when taking business decisions. Others include the environment, different stakeholders, future generations and the corporation itself as an abstract entity. Consequently, the powerful impact of this evolution has made the Corporate Sustainability (CS) an issue that should be considered either instrumentally to achieve the objectives of owners or normatively as a part of the organization’s goals. In this paper, we summarize the key aspects of sustainability that are embedded in the accounting research and practice. We firstly look at the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), including Environmental Accounting (EA), as a vital starting point for the CS research in Accounting. Then, we illustrate the contribution of Accounting to CS through the enhancement of governance systems, the encouragement of a long-term outlook, ensuring the reliability of financial reports and promoting the ethical and professional behavior aspects of accounting practitioners. We conclude the paper with some recommendations for future research and accounting education which may emphasize the understanding of accounting in the context of CS.

Keywords: Accounting, Corporate sustainability, Corporate Governance, Short-termism, CSR

JEL Classification: M40, G30

Suggested Citation:

Salleh, Zalailah and Sulub, Saed and Hashim, Hafiza, Beyond Numbers and Financials: Accounting and Corporate Sustainability (April 03, 2017). FGIC 1st Conference on Governance & Integrity, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3458545 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3458545
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
Aaa
Report of the committee on the measurement of social costs American Accounting Association
The Accounting Review , volume 49 , p. 99 - 113 Posted: 1974
Abdul Rahman , R Haneem Mohamed , F Ali
Board, audit committee, culture and earnings management: Malaysian evidence
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 21 , issue 7 , p. 783 - 804 Posted: 2006
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Management accounting as practice. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Aksu , A Kosedag
Transparency and disclosure scores and their determinants in the Istanbul Stock Exchange
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 277 - 296 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,014
RANK
718,946
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies