Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sexism, Culture, and Firm Value: Evidence from the Harvey Weinstein Scandal and the #MeToo Movement

University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2019-509

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 679/2020

63 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2019 Last revised: 12 Aug 2025

Karl V. Lins

University of Utah - Department of Finance

Lukas Roth

University of Alberta - Department of Finance and Statistical Analysis; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Henri Servaes

London Business School; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Ane Tamayo

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 22, 2024

Abstract

During the revelation of the Harvey Weinstein scandal and the re-emergence of the #MeToo movement, firms with a non-sexist corporate culture, proxied by having women among the five highest paid executives, earn excess returns of 1.3% relative to firms without female top executives. These returns are driven by changes in investor preferences towards firms with a non-sexist culture. Institutional ownership increases in firms with a non-sexist culture after the Weinstein/#MeToo events, particularly for investors with larger holdings and investors with a lower ESG focus ex-ante. Firms without female top executives improve gender diversity after these events, particularly in more sexist states and in industries with few women executives. Our evidence attests to the value of having a non-sexist corporate culture, and indicates that changes in societal norms towards women are permeating into capital markets and corporations.

Keywords: Culture, Sexism, Gender Equality, #MeToo, Valuation, Returns, Investor Preferences, Institutional Ownership, ESG

JEL Classification: M14, J16, G12, G30

Suggested Citation:

Lins, Karl V. and Roth, Lukas and Servaes, Henri and Tamayo, Ane Miren, Sexism, Culture, and Firm Value: Evidence from the Harvey Weinstein Scandal and the #MeToo Movement (April 22, 2024). University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2019-509, European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 679/2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3458312 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3458312
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
R B Adams , P Funk
Beyond the glass ceiling: Does gender matter
Management Science , volume 58 , p. 219 - 235 Posted: 2012
B K Adhikari , A Agrawal , J Malm
Do women managers keep firms out of trouble? Evidence from corporate litigation and policies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , p. 202 - 225 Posted: 2019
K R Ahern , A K Dittmar
The changing of the boards: The impact on firm valuation of mandated female board representation
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,549
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,387
RANK
12,149
8 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies