Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Passive Blockholders, Informational Efficiency of Prices, and Firm Value

Review of Financial Economics, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2019 Last revised: 8 Jan 2020

Kee H. Chung

State University of New York at Buffalo - School of Management

Choonsik Lee

University of Rhode Island

Carl Hsin-han Shen

Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Date Written: September 25, 2019

Abstract

This paper analyzes the role of passive blockholders in corporate governance using data on Schedule 13G filings. We show that firm value increases with the number and aggregate ownership of passive blockholders after controlling for other possible determinants of firm value. More importantly, we show that the informational efficiency of prices (IEP) increases with the number and aggregate ownership of passive blockholders, and IEP is a channel through which passive blockholders affect firm value. Overall, our results suggest that managers perform better when stock prices reflect the economic consequences of their actions promptly and accurately through information-based trading of blockholders.

Keywords: Passive blockholders, Tobin’s q ratio, Informational efficiency of asset price, Liquidity, Causal mediation analysis

JEL Classification: G14, G20, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Chung, Kee H. and Lee, Choonsik and Shen, Carl Hsin-han, Passive Blockholders, Informational Efficiency of Prices, and Firm Value (September 25, 2019). Review of Financial Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3459271 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3459271
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
P Rosenbaum , D Rubin
The central role of the propensity score in observational studies for causal effects
Biometrika , volume 70 , p. 41 - 55 Posted: 1983
Crossref
R Sadka , A Scherbina
Analyst disagreement, mispricing, and liquidity
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 2367 - 2403 Posted: 2007
Crossref
D Scharfstein
Product-market competition and managerial slack
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 19 , p. 147 - 155 Posted: 1988
Crossref
C Schmidt , R Fahlenbrach
Do exogenous changes in passive institutional ownership affect corporate governance and firm value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 124 , p. 285 - 306 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,310
RANK
667,795
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies