Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Geographic Density of Firms to Identify the Effect of Board Size on Firm Value and Corporate Policies

35 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2019

Pandej Chintrakarn

Mahidol University International College (MUIC)

Shenghui Tong

Siena College

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Young Sang Kim

Northern Kentucky University - College of Business; Taejae University

Date Written: September 27, 2019

Abstract

Prior research shows that firms tend to recruit directors from the geographically-proximate area. Due to a limited supply of qualified individuals in a given area, firms located in close proximity have to share a limited pool of talented individuals. As a result, the larger the number of firms in the same area, the fewer directors each firm in the area is able to obtain on average. Consistent with this notion, our results show that firms located in a zip code with a larger number of other firms exhibit significantly smaller board size. We then exploit the variation in the numbers of firms across the zip codes and estimate the effects of board size on various corporate outcomes. Our results show that larger board size leads to lower firm value, lower accounting profitability, higher leverage, higher dividend payouts, and a stronger propensity to be an acquirer.

Keywords: boards, corporate governance, instrumental variable, firm value, capital structure, dividend policy

JEL Classification: G14, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Chintrakarn, Pandej and Tong, Shenghui and Jiraporn, Pornsit and Kim, Young Sang, Using Geographic Density of Firms to Identify the Effect of Board Size on Firm Value and Corporate Policies (September 27, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3460738 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3460738
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Average Director
Ln
Crossref
Total Debt/Total Assets -1.952*** -2.882*** -2.128***
Crossref
Average Director Tenure -10.602*** -6
Load more
1 Citations
Jong-Min Kim , Chulhee Jun , Hope H. Han
Sustainable Causal Interpretation with Board Characteristics: Caveat Emptor
Sustainability , volume 12 , issue 8 , p. 3429 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,099
RANK
609,870
1 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies