Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting and Entrepreneurial Finance: Evidence from Equity Crowdfunding

57 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2019 Last revised: 26 Jun 2020

John Donovan

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: June 26, 2020

Abstract

I study the role of accounting and financial reporting in entrepreneurial finance by examining whether financial statement disclosure increases capital raised through equity crowdfunding. On average, I find a positive association between financial reporting and capital raised, suggesting that accounting reduces information asymmetry with potential investors. Additionally, the importance of financial reporting in equity crowdfunding varies predictably in the cross-section. Specifically, financial reporting is associated with greater capital raised when the firm has longer historical operations, during periods of higher macroeconomic uncertainty, and when complemented by detailed shareholder agreements. Finally, using a mediation analysis, I find evidence that financial reporting is indirectly associated with better ex-post performance by increasing the likelihood of raising capital. These results provide insight into the role of financial reporting in entrepreneurial finance and inform the ongoing debate over regulation and disclosure in the equity crowdfunding market.

Keywords: crowdfunding, entrepreneurship, financial reporting, regulation

JEL Classification: G10, L20, M13, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Donovan, John, Financial Reporting and Entrepreneurial Finance: Evidence from Equity Crowdfunding (June 26, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3460696 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3460696
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
Eliot Abrams
Securities Crowdfunding: More than Family, Friends, and Fools?
Pages: 45 Posted: 23 Jan 2017 Last revised: 14 Mar 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Agrawal , C Catalini , A Goldfarb
Some Simple Economics of Crowdfunding
Innovation Policy and the Economy , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 97 Posted: 2014
Crossref
G Ahlers , D Cumming , C Guenther , D Schweizer
Signaling in Equity Crowdfunding
Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 955 - 980 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
Industry Concentration and Corporate Disclosure Policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
623
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,504
RANK
98,290
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies