Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Missing Social Outcomes in CSR Reports of Award Winners

Global Journal of Business Research, v. 13 (2) p. 13-36, 2019

24 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2019

Kathleen M. Wilburn

St. Edward’s University

H. Ralph Wilburn

St. Edward’s University

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

Consumers increasingly expect transparency from companies practicing Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and base their buying practices on what they see and hear about a company’s CSR initiatives. Unfortunately, many CSR reports resemble marketing materials, rather than data that shows what the actions have accomplished for those targeted stakeholder groups. CSR reports need to prove that companies have achieved outcomes, not just established goals. Companies need to demonstrate that their CSR initiatives are not just greenwashing to keep their consumers happy. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the CSR/Sustainability Reports of twenty-one corporations that appear both in the CR Magazine’s 2018 100 Best Corporate Citizens and the World’s Most Reputable Companies for Corporate Social Responsibility for 2018 to see if they report outcome measures as well as goals. The study found that, although many of the corporations address the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and the UN 2013 Sustainable Development Goals in their reports, the initiatives that focus on the social elements have no data or outcomes for them, especially when they involve philanthropy to nonprofits. Only environmental goals had year-to-year data on progress toward goals.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Sustainable Development Goals, Global Reporting Initiative, Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact

JEL Classification: M14

Suggested Citation:

Wilburn, Kathleen M. and Wilburn, H. Ralph, Missing Social Outcomes in CSR Reports of Award Winners (2019). Global Journal of Business Research, v. 13 (2) p. 13-36, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3460801
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
3m
2018 Sustainability report Posted: 2018
Accenture
2017 Corporate citizenship report Posted: 2017
Apple
Environmental responsibility report: 2018 progress report Posted: 2018
R Bazillier , J Vauday
The greenwashing machine: Is CSR more than communication? Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,041
RANK
360,957
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies