Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance, Performance and Liquidity Risk: Insights From WAEMU Banks

40 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2019

Alassane Ouattara

CESAG Business School

Date Written: May 30, 2016

Abstract

Over the past two decades, several corporates collapses and scandals led to track down any deficiencies of the traditional corporate governance mechanisms. These collapses and scandals include Enron (2001) and WorldCom (2002) in USA, Vivendi (2001) and Vinci (2006) in France, Parmalat (2003) in Italy, and most recently, Ecobank Transnational Incorporated’s boardroom battle (2013) in West African Context. This chapter examines the relation between corporate governance mechanisms and operating performance and liquidity risk within the specific environment of West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) banks. The implementation of well-known western corporate governance mechanisms in emerging markets, which mostly focus on unsophisticated financial services, is likely to act more as operating constraints than value-creation factors. Based on a sample drawn from 100 commercial banks over the period 2006–2010, we document the following four main findings: dual structure and board size are negatively and significantly associated with banks’ performance as proxied by Return on Assets (ROA) and Return on Equity (ROE), board size, board diversity and nature of ownership exhibit a negative and significant relation with banks’ liquidity risk, the presence of CEO in the directors’ board appears to be the only corporate governance mechanism efficiently associated with banks’ liquidity risk, overall, the effects of the WAEMU’s banks corporate governance mechanisms on their operating performance and liquidity risk are significantly different if bank is in joint or single auditing setting (proxy for audit quality). This finding supports the view that audit quality is complementary to corporate governance mechanisms under the WAEMU context.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Financial Institutions, Operating Performance, Liquidity Risk, WAEMU

JEL Classification: G21, G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Ouattara, Alassane, Corporate Governance, Performance and Liquidity Risk: Insights From WAEMU Banks (May 30, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3460431 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3460431
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
819
RANK
432,018
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies