Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Disclosure Regulation: In Search of a Relationship with the Countries Competitiveness

Alex Plastun, Inna Makarenko, Olena Kravchenko, Natalia Ovcharova and Zhanna Oleksich (2019). ESG disclosure regulation: in search of a relationship with the countries’ competitiveness. Problems and Perspectives in Management, 17(3), 76-88. doi:10.21511/ppm.17(3).2019.06

14 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2019

Alex Plastun

Sumy State University

Inna Makarenko

National Bank of Ukraine - Ukrainian Academy of Banking of the National Bank of Ukraine

Olena Krvchenko

Sumy State University

Natalia Ovcharova

Sumy State University

Zhanna Oleksich

Sumy State University

Date Written: July 26, 2019

Abstract

This paper is devoted to the investigation of environmental, social and governance (ESG) disclosure regulation process and its possible connection with countries’ competitiveness as an integral part of countries’ Corporate Social and Environmental Responsibility (CSER) poliсy. ESG disclosure regulation criteria were examined according to their classification on Pension Fund Regulation, Stewardship Code, Government Corporate ESG disclosure, and Non-Government Corporate ESG disclosure by UNPRI in 2016 and for developed countries and developing and emerging countries separately. In order to find the relationship between ESG disclosure and the countries’ competitiveness (describing by Global Competitiveness Index), variety of statistical tests was applied (Student’s t-tests, ANOVA analysis, Mann-Whitney tests, simple average analysis and regression analysis with dummy variables). Research hypotheses about statistically significant differences in ESG disclosure regulation between developed countries and developing and emerging countries and the influence of ESG disclosure regulation on the overall competitiveness of the country were proved. ESG disclosure regulation became an effective instrument of countries CSER policy and tools for increasing their competitiveness.

Keywords: country’s competitiveness, CSER, ESG disclosure, regulation

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Plastun, Alex and Makarenko, Inna and Krvchenko, Olena and Ovcharova, Natalia and Oleksich, Zhanna, ESG Disclosure Regulation: In Search of a Relationship with the Countries Competitiveness (July 26, 2019). Alex Plastun, Inna Makarenko, Olena Kravchenko, Natalia Ovcharova and Zhanna Oleksich (2019). ESG disclosure regulation: in search of a relationship with the countries’ competitiveness. Problems and Perspectives in Management, 17(3), 76-88. doi:10.21511/ppm.17(3).2019.06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3461291
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
M Adams , B Thornton , M Sepehri
The impact of the pursuit of sustainability on the financial performance of the firm
Journal of Sustainability and Green Business , volume 1 Posted: 2012
N S Bayoud , M Kavanagh , G Slaughter
Corporate social responsibility disclosure and corporate reputation in developing countries: The case of Libya
Journal of Business and Policy Research , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 131 - 160 Posted: 2012
N Brunsson , B Jacobsson
A world of standards Posted: 2000
Responsible investment regulation map
UNPRI Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
650
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,147
RANK
93,094
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies