Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Are Firms Sold? The Role of Common Ownership

Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Forthcoming. 

71 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2019 Last revised: 3 Dec 2024

M. Vahid Irani

University of South Carolina - Darla Moore School of Business

Wenhao Yang

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Charlotte - Finance

Feng Zhang

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Finance Department

Date Written: November 10, 2024

Abstract

We find that common ownership among acquirers enhances rather than hinders competition in the firm sale process. One common owner raises the likelihood that target firms are sold through auction (versus negotiation with one buyer) by 21.5%. The effect is causal according to identifications based on mergers between financial institutions. Exploring economic channels, we observe selling firms respond to common ownership among acquirers by avoiding cross-owned acquirers, by bargaining hard, by inviting more buyers when cross-owned acquirers initiate the deal, but not by terminating the deal. Consistent with enhanced competition, common ownership among acquirers is positively associated with deal quality. 

Keywords: common ownership, auction, negotiation, mergers and acquisitions

JEL Classification: D44, G34, L41

Suggested Citation:

Irani, M. Vahid and Yang, Wenhao and Zhang, Feng, How Are Firms Sold? The Role of Common Ownership (November 10, 2024). Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Forthcoming. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3461284 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3461284
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
K Ahern
Bargaining power and industry dependence in mergers
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 103 , p. 530 - 550 Posted: 2012
N Aktas , E De Bodt , ; , R Roll
Negotiations under the threat of an auction
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 98 , p. 241 - 255 Posted: 2010
M Antón , J Azar , M Gine , L X Lin
Beyond the target: M&A decisions and rival ownership
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , p. 44 - 66 Posted: 2022
K Asai , B Charoenwong
Ownership networks and bid rigging Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
460
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,996
RANK
143,403
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies