Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Scandal Spillovers: An Empirical Study of the Dieselgate Using Twitter Data

51 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2019

Julien Jourdan

HEC Paris

Ju Qiu

Université Paris Dauphine

Svitlana Galeshchuk

University Paris Dauphine

Date Written: September 28, 2019

Abstract

We explore how the social media attention received by a firm implicated in a large corporate scandal affects the market value of its competitors. Existing work provides contrasted arguments and evidence regarding the spillover effects of scandals: rivals may suffer from contamination and at the same time benefit from substitution. Building on and extending prior work, we develop a stylized model to predict how contamination and substitution interact and jointly affect firms’ value in a non-linear way during the course of a scandal. We test our model using unique data, including 1.2m tweets, on the Dieselgate scandal that affected the global automobile industry in 2015. We find evidence of an inverted-U shape relationship between social media attention and rival firms’ value at the global scale, suggesting that substitution dominates on average. Yet the pattern is reversed for German and other European firms, primarily affected by contamination. We discuss how the study contributes to the literature on corporate scandal and disapproval, with implications for the understanding of the impact of social media on organizations.

Keywords: corporate scandal, social media, market value, event analysis, competition

Suggested Citation:

Jourdan, Julien and Qiu, Ju and Galeshchuk, Svitlana, Corporate Scandal Spillovers: An Empirical Study of the Dieselgate Using Twitter Data (September 28, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3461615 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3461615
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
D Acemoglu , T A Hassan , A Tahoun
The power of the street: Evidence from egypt's arab spring
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 31 , p. 1 - 42 Posted: 2018
Crossref
A Adut
Crossref
A theory of scandal: Victorians, homosexuality, and the fall of oscar wilde
American Journal of Sociology , volume 111 , p. 213 - 248
Crossref
F Aggeri , J Saussois
La puissance des grandes entreprises mondialisées à l'épreuve du judiciaire-de l'affaire volkswagen au dieselgate
Revue Française de Gestion , volume 43 , p. 85 - 102 Posted: 2017
Load more
6 Citations
Karim Ben-Slimane , Amira Laifi , Olivier Germain
A relational power perspective on the positional shift of peripheral players in an organisational field: The case of Mediapart in the French press field
Journal of Business Research , volume 173 , p. 114466 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Walter von Mettenheim , Klaus-Peter Wiedmann
Influencer transgressions: The impacts on endorser and brand
Journal of Media Economics , volume 35 , issue 1-2 , p. 28 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Kylie McMullan
A checklist for managers to enhance influencer partnerships and avoid potential pitfalls
Business Horizons , volume 66 , issue 4 , p. 443 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Belinda Kintu , Karim Ben-Slimane
Companies responses to scandal backlash caused by social media influencers
International Journal of Market Research , volume 62 , issue 6 , p. 666 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
512
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,463
RANK
125,978
6 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies