Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bootstrapping the Gini Index of the Network Degree: An Application for Italian Corporate Governance

Working Paper Series Department of Economics University of Verona, WP No. 5, June 2019

16 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2019

Carlo Drago

Università degli Studi "Niccolò Cusano"

Roberto Ricciuti

University of Verona - Department of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Date Written: June 1, 2019

Abstract

We propose a new approach based on bootstrapping to compare complex networks. This is an important task when we wish to compare the effect of a (policy) shock on the structure of a network. The bootstrap test compares two values of the Gini index, and the test is performed on the difference between them. The application is based on the interlocking directorship network. At the director level, Italian corporate governance is characterized by the widespread occurrence of interlocking directorates. Article 36 of Law 214/2011 prohibited interlocking directorates in the financial sector. We compare the interlocking directorship networks in 2009 (before the reform) with 2012 (after the reform) and find evidence of an asymmetric effect of the reform on the network centrality of the different companies but no significant effects on Gini indices.

Keywords: Complex Networks, Gini Index, Bootstrap Method

JEL Classification: C13, G34

Suggested Citation:

Drago, Carlo and Ricciuti, Roberto, Bootstrapping the Gini Index of the Network Degree: An Application for Italian Corporate Governance (June 1, 2019). Working Paper Series Department of Economics University of Verona, WP No. 5, June 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3461114 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3461114
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
933
RANK
914,805
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies