Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Characteristics and Corporate Social Responsibility of Listed Firms in Nigeria

Journal of Accounting and Management, Volume 2, Issue 1, June, 2019, pp73-83, ISSN 1119-2454. A publication of Department of Accounting and Management, Nigerian Defence Academy

25 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2019

Muideen Adeseye Awodiran

Afe Babalola University

Jimba Isiaka Kareem

Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti

Date Written: June 2019

Abstract

Corporate Social Performance (CSR) is an emerging issue that is gaining attention by the day. Two of the critical factors affecting companies CSR are board diversity and gender composition. The study investigated the effect of board diversity and gender composition on corporate social responsibility of listed industrial goods firms in Nigeria. The study population was made up of all industrial goods firms listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange. Judgmental sampling technique was used to arrive at a sample size of 13 companies. The study made use of secondary data generated from annual reports and accounts of the sampled firms for the period 2008-2017. The data were analyzed using regression analysis. The study revealed that board size, board tenure and gender composition have a significant and positive effect on CSR. However, board independence shows a significant negative effect on CSR. The study recommends amongst others that female participation on the board be increased as females are more likely to encourage ethical and philanthropic behaviour which promotes CSR.


Keywords: Board Diversity, Gender Composition, CSR, Listed Firms in Nigeria

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Awodiran, Muideen Adeseye and Jimba, Kareem Isiaka, Board Characteristics and Corporate Social Responsibility of Listed Firms in Nigeria (June 2019). Journal of Accounting and Management, Volume 2, Issue 1, June, 2019, pp73-83, ISSN 1119-2454. A publication of Department of Accounting and Management, Nigerian Defence Academy, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3461371
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Alazzani , A Hassanien , Y Janadi
Impact of gender diversity on social and environmental performance evidence from Malaysia. Corporate governance , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2017
Crossref
H O Anazonwn , C Egbunike , A Gunardi
Corporate board diversity and sustainability reporting: A study of selected listed manufacturing firms in Nigeria
Journal of Sustainability Accounting and Management , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 78 Posted: 2018-10
Crossref
D E Arfken , S L Bellar , M M Helms
The ultimate glass ceiling revisited: The presence of women on corporate boards
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 177 - 186 Posted: 2004-02
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
270
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,100
RANK
258,355
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies