Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Financial Performance of Listed Consumer Goods Firms in Nigeria

Nigerian Studies in Economics and Management Sciences, 2(1), 2019, pp9-17 ISSN: 2645-3061

9 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2019

Muideen Adeseye Awodiran

Afe Babalola University

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

The study examined the effect of corporate governance surrogates on financial performance of quoted consumer goods firms in Nigeria. The population is made up of all listed consumer goods firms in Nigeria, from which 16 companies were randomly selected. The study used data gathered from financial statements of listed consumer goods firms in Nigeria. (2008-2017). Descriptive and inferential statistical methods were employed in analyzing the data gathered. Hausman test was also conducted to make a choice between random and fixed effect models of panel least square regression; which favoured random effect model. The study found that board composition and ownership concentration positively influenced profitability while size of the board and the status of Chief Executive Officer exerted negative but significant influence on profitability.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Financial Performance, Listed Consumer Goods Firms

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Awodiran, Muideen Adeseye, Corporate Governance and Financial Performance of Listed Consumer Goods Firms in Nigeria (2019). Nigerian Studies in Economics and Management Sciences, 2(1), 2019, pp9-17 ISSN: 2645-3061 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3461380
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
D A Abdulazeez , L Ndibe , A M Mercy
Corporate governance and financial performance of listed deposit money banks in Nigeria
J Account Mark , volume 5 Posted: 2016
Crossref
S A Adekunle , E M Aghedo
Corporate governance and financial performance of selected quoted companies in Nigeria
European Journal of Business and Management , volume 6 , issue 9 Posted: 2014
B A Agbonifoh
Introduction to business Posted: 1999
W A Aon , A J Javed
Impact of corporate governance on financial performance
Business and Economic Research , volume 6 , issue 2 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
703
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,944
RANK
84,191
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies