Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
In for a Bumpy Ride? Cash Flow Risk and Dividend Payouts

50 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2019

Christian Andres

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Ulrich Hofbaur

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: June 26, 2019

Abstract

This paper investigates the relation between cash flow risk and dividend policy. Consistent with the notion that shareholders expect stable dividends once a payout has been established, firms with high cash flow risk are more reluctant to initiate dividend payouts. For dividend payers, we find changes in cash flow risk to have an asymmetric effect on dividend changes: While decreases in cash flow risk lower the propensity to cut dividends, firms are not more likely to increase dividends if cash flow risk decreases. Analyzing dividend smoothing, we further document a positive effect of cash flow risk on the speed of dividend adjustments, indicating that higher cash flow risk is partly passed on to shareholders via more volatile dividends.

Keywords: cash flow risk, dividend changes, payout policy

JEL Classification: G32, G35

Suggested Citation:

Andres, Christian and Hofbaur, Ulrich, In for a Bumpy Ride? Cash Flow Risk and Dividend Payouts (June 26, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3461574 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3461574
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
D Nissim , A Ziv
Dividend changes and future profitability
Journal of Finance , volume 56 , p. 2111 - 2133 Posted: 2001
Crossref
D J Skinner
The evolving relation between earnings, dividends, and stock repurchases
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 87 , p. 582 - 609 Posted: 2008
Crossref
No. obs , volume 22 Posted: 98421
Crossref
Variable Name Description 4-QRS Dividend Payer Indicator variable that is set to one if a firm increases its dividend as part of a 4-quarter structure
Appendix: Variable Definitions This table contains the descriptions of all the variables employed Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
849
RANK
622,944
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies