Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dynamic Ownership, Private Benefits, and Stock Prices

56 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2019

Raffaele Corvino

University of Torino & CERP

Date Written: September 30, 2019

Abstract

I quantify private benefits of control, and their impact on stock prices, by estimating a structural model of optimal shareholding using data on the ownership dynamics of Italian public companies. The results show that controlling shareholders generally have positive and persistent impact on stock prices, and the impact is larger during the last Eurozone debt crisis. The results imply that controlling shareholders are particularly beneficial for the rest of the company shareholders during negative economic cycles. I also provide evidence of a synergistic effect when the controlling shareholder is a corporation.

Keywords: Private Benefits, Controlling Shareholders, Ownership Dynamics, Structural Estimation, Stock Prices

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G14, G32

Suggested Citation:

Corvino, Raffaele, Dynamic Ownership, Private Benefits, and Stock Prices (September 30, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3461674 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3461674
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
A Dhillon , S Rossetto
Ownership structure, voting, and risk , volume 28 , p. 521 - 560 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Donelli , B Larrain , I Urzsua
Ownership dynamics with large shareholders: An empirical analysis
J. Financial Quantitative Analysis , volume 48 , p. 579 - 609 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A Dyck , L Zingales
Private benefits of control: an international comparison
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 537 - 600 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M Faccio , L H P Lang
The ultimate ownership of western european corporations
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 65 , p. 365 - 395 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
942
RANK
697,608
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies