Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Institutional Context on Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure: A Case of a Developing Country

Journal of Sustainable Finance and Investment. Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2019

Ibrahem Alshbili

The Libyan Audit Bureau,Department of Corporate Governance, Dahra Squire, Tripoli, Libya

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Date Written: October 1, 2019

Abstract

In this paper, we examine the influence of the institutional environment on the adoption of Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure (CSRD) in Libya. In doing so, we use isomorphism as a neo-institutionalist theoretical construction that explores whether institutional factors act as pressures for CSRD practices. Using a qualitative method, the findings show that, despite managers perceive some coercive, mimetic and normative pressures interplay to influence CSRD, the revision of the firms’ laws and policies and the establishment of CSRD regulations and monitoring institutions should be established and undertaken to improve accounting disclosure. The results propose important implications for adapting CSRD for firms and policy-makers in developing countries.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility disclosure, Institutional context, Neo-institutional theory, Isomorphism, Libya

Suggested Citation:

Alshbili, Ibrahem and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed, The Influence of Institutional Context on Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure: A Case of a Developing Country (October 1, 2019). Journal of Sustainable Finance and Investment. Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3462180
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
M Adhikariparajul , A Hassan , M Fletcher , A A Elamer
Integrated reporting in UK higher education institutions. Sustainability Accounting
Management and Policy Journal, Forthcoming Posted: 2019
Crossref
M A M Ali , H A Ruhaya
The Relationship between Corporate Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure: A Case of High Malaysian Sustainability Companies and Global Sustainability Companies
South East Asia Journal of Contemporary Business, Economics and Law , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 39 - 48 Posted: 2013
A Alnabsha , H A Abdou , C G Ntim , A A Elamer
Corporate boards, ownership structures and corporate disclosures: Evidence from a developing country
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 20 - 41 Posted: 2018
A Alnabsha , H A Abdou , C G Ntim , A A Elamer
Corporate boards, ownership structures and corporate disclosures: Evidence from a developing country
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 20 - 41 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
894
RANK
456,571
5 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies