Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Equity's Governance Advantage: A Requiem

Boston University Law Review, Vol. 99, No. 3, 2019

Duke Law School Public Law & Legal Theory Series No. 2019-71

26 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2019

Elisabeth de Fontenay

Duke University School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: April 22, 2019

Abstract

Private equity’s original purpose was to optimize companies’ governance and operations. Reuniting ownership and control in corporate America, the leveraged buyout (or the mere threat thereof) undoubtedly helped reform management practices in a broad swath of U.S. companies. Due to mounting competitive pressures, however, private equity is finding relatively fewer underperforming companies to fix. This is particularly true of U.S. public companies, which are continuously dogged by activist hedge funds and other empowered shareholders looking for any sign of slack.

In response, private equity is shifting its center of gravity away from governance reform, towards a dizzying array of new tactics and new asset classes. Large private equity firms now simultaneously run leveraged buyout funds, credit funds, real estate funds, alternative investments funds, and even hedge funds. The difficulty is that some of the new money-making strategies are less likely to be value increasing than governance and operational improvements. Moreover, they introduce new conflicts of interest and complexities that alter private equity’s role in corporate governance. Private equity’s governance advantage has always been to ensure that companies are the servant of only one master. Yet today the master itself may have divided loyalties and attention. With few gains left to be had from governance reforms, private equity is quietly distancing itself from the corporate governance revolution that it helped bring about.

Keywords: private equity, corporate governance, leveraged buyout

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

de Fontenay, Elisabeth, Private Equity's Governance Advantage: A Requiem (April 22, 2019). Boston University Law Review, Vol. 99, No. 3, 2019, Duke Law School Public Law & Legal Theory Series No. 2019-71, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3462752
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
See Gao , &amp; Ritter , Zhu
Crossref
M Juan , Sánchez &amp; Emircan Yurdagul
Why Are Corporations Holding So Much Cash? Posted: 2013-01
See Gao , &amp; Ritter , Zhu
Crossref
See Daniel , A Crane
Has the Obama Justice Department Reinvigorated Antitrust Enforcement?, 65 STAN
L. REV. ONLINE , volume 13 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
642
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,422
RANK
94,800
1 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Duke Law School Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies