Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Dividend Pay-Out on Market Price of Share With Special Reference to Automobile Sector Companies Listed on NSE

Proceedings of International Conference on Advancements in Computing & Management (ICACM) 2019

6 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2019

Kanchan Bajaja

JIMS, Rohini

Neha Jain

JIMS, Rohini

Date Written: October 3, 2019

Abstract

Many variables have an impact on the share’s market price such as Government policies, firm’s financial performance etc. This paper attempted to find out relationship between dividend pay-out and market price of the share. Financial manager must take three major decisions i.e. Financing decisions, Investment decisions and Dividend decisions. The third vital decision of a company is the volume of cash to be given to shareholders. Dividend policy includes the part of earnings given to shareholders in cash as dividends. This paper takes into consideration the automobile sector companies listed in NIFTY 50 for 10 years i.e. 2009 to 2018. It attempts to find out whether dividend decisions of the company affect its market price. Generally speaking shareholders expect a return from the company. After the analysis, the study concluded that there exists a robust relationship between dividend pay-out ratio and market value of certain companies and some companies had negative relationship.

Keywords: Dividend Payout P/E MPS NSE

Suggested Citation:

Bajaja, Kanchan and Jain, Neha, Impact of Dividend Pay-Out on Market Price of Share With Special Reference to Automobile Sector Companies Listed on NSE (October 3, 2019). Proceedings of International Conference on Advancements in Computing & Management (ICACM) 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3463676 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3463676
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
J C Horne
Financial Management and Policy: Pearson Education Asia Posted: 2007
M Y Khan , P K &amp;jain
Financial Management-Text, Problems and Cases: Tata McGraw Hill Education Private Limited Posted: 2012
C R Kothari
Impact of dividend on share pricing in commercial banks of Nepal
Research Methodology: Methods and Techniques: New Age International Publishers Dhungel Amar , volume 3 , p. 21 - 36 Posted: 2011
Uzzamanasad Al-Hasan Md , Md
The effect of dividend policy on share price : An evaluative study
IOSR Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 1 , issue 4 , p. 6 - 11 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
282
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,037
RANK
247,189
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies