Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Holding Company Dividend Policy: Changed by Recession?

10 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2019

John Theis

Independent

Ata M Yesilyaprak

University of Minnesota Crookston

Andres Jauregui

Independent

Amitabh S. Dutta

Florida Institute of Technology

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

This study examines seven basic theories of dividend policies in bank holding companies during the worst recession since The Great Depression. Data is obtained from Uniform Bank Performance Reports for 2008 where large losses were reported for the US banks. Previous studies found that the management of the companies believe that dividend policy is important created by the present value of future dividends, or the capital gains associated with the future dividends. Dickens et al used Barclay et al model and studied the factors that may have an impact on dividend policies of publicly traded bank holding companies. Their results indicate investment opportunity, size, expected earnings, inside ownership and previous dividend are significant factors in bank holding companies dividend policies. The model used in this paper includes investment opportunities, regulation, agency affects, dividend smoothing, earnings risk, and residual earnings and found that there is a difference between dividend policies of bank holding companies during deep recession and good economy. Furthermore, factors such as investment opportunity, dividend history, size, residual earnings and insider ownership have significant affect on dividend policies of bank holding companies.

Keywords: Dividend policy, Bank Holding Company dividend policy, BHC

JEL Classification: G21

Suggested Citation:

Theis, John and Yesilyaprak, Ata M and Jauregui, Andres and Dutta, Amitabh S., Bank Holding Company Dividend Policy: Changed by Recession? (2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3463590 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3463590
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
768
RANK
481,162
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies