Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing the Risk of Directors’ Wrongful Conduct through D&O Insurance

The Journal of British Insurance Law Association, 2019

25 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2019

Samet Caliskan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 2, 2019

Abstract

Companies may suffer loss through the wrongful conduct of their directors. There are various techniques to mitigate this risk, one of which is insurance. This method transfers or shifts the risk to insurers and should assist a company seeking to mitigate this risk for the purpose of protecting the long-term interests of stakeholders. Accordingly, the question that the article seeks to answer is whether the company is truly able to mitigate the risk through insurance or whether there are certain obstacles that may prevent it from doing so.

Being able to mitigate corporate risks by transferring the loss to the insurer is an important feature of corporate insurance policies. Such policy coverages are typically provided to the company under Directors and Officers Liability Insurance (hereafter D&O insurance), which was introduced by Lloyds of London in the late 1930s. This insurance is a type of liability insurance that aims to protect both the companies and directors for loss suffered either by the companies or third parties. The company may seek to bring a claim under the insurance policy for various types of loss due to the operational deficiencies of its business and behavioural shortcomings of its directors.

Keywords: Company, directors, insurance, risk, mitigation

Suggested Citation:

Caliskan, Samet, Managing the Risk of Directors’ Wrongful Conduct through D&O Insurance (October 2, 2019). The Journal of British Insurance Law Association, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3463192
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Simon Goldring
Insurers' Liability for Civil Fines and Penalties Posted: 2011-07
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance and Indemnification' (Council of Foundation
International Liability of Corporate Directors , volume 16 Posted: 2007-10
Anna Morfey , Conall Patton
Safeway Stores Ltd v Twigger: The Buck Stops Here
Comp Law , volume 57 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
691
RANK
499,012
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies