Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Corporate Governance Ratings Change Investor Expectations? Evidence from Announcements by Institutional Shareholder Services

Review of Finance, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2019

Paul M. Guest

Kings Business School; University of Cambridge - Centre for Business Research (CBR)

Marco Nerino

King's Business School; University of Cambridge - Centre for Business Research (CBR)

Date Written: August 20, 2019

Abstract

This paper examines empirically the announcement effect of commercial corporate governance ratings on share returns. Rating downgrades by Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) are associated with negative returns of –1.14% over a 3-day announcement window. The returns are highly correlated with the proprietary analysis of ISS and are decreasing in agency costs, consistent with ratings providing independent information on underlying corporate governance quality. We thus show that the influence and impact of ISS extends beyond proxy recommendations and subsequent voting outcomes. Our findings contrast with the insignificant price impact of Daines, Gow, and Larcker (2010), whose analysis we replicate and successfully reconcile to ours by pooling upgrades and downgrades together.

Keywords: Corporate Governance Ratings; Information Intermediaries; Event Study; Information Content; Institutional Shareholder Services

JEL Classification: G14, G24, G34

Suggested Citation:

Guest, Paul M. and Nerino, Marco, Do Corporate Governance Ratings Change Investor Expectations? Evidence from Announcements by Institutional Shareholder Services (August 20, 2019). Review of Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3464395
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
C Alexander , M Chen , D Seppi , C Spatt
Interim news and the role of proxy voting advice
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , p. 4419 - 4454 Posted: 2010
Crossref
L Bebchuk , A Cohen , A Ferrell
What matters in corporate governance?
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2009
Crossref
L Bebchuk , A Cohen , C Wang
Learning and the disappearing association between governance and returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , p. 323 - 348 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A Beyer , D Cohen , T Lys , B Walther
The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
533
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,580
RANK
120,270
6 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies