Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Chief Audit Executive Turnover in Taiwan

43 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2019 Last revised: 18 Mar 2024

Kenneth L. Bills

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Hua‐Wei Huang

National Cheng Kung University - Accounting

Yi-Hung Lin

Monash University

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 2024

Abstract

This study adds to the emerging body of research showing the importance of internal audit to improve corporate governance and firm performance. Specifically, we test how the market reacts to the announcement of a turnover to the head of internal audit (i.e., the chief audit executive (CAE)). We find negative cumulative abnormal returns in the days surrounding the announcement of a CAE turnover and that the market holds a relatively negative perception of CAE turnover regardless of the reasons for the turnover event. We then study two reasons for why the market would react negatively to the CAE turnover and find that CAE turnovers are associated with lower financial reporting quality (i.e., greater likelihood of misstatements, higher abnormal and positive discretionary accruals) and lower operating performance (i.e., return on assets, return on equity, and Tobin’s Q). We find evidence of both decreased financial reporting quality and firm performance following CAE turnovers. The financial reporting changes are largely temporary, only having an influence for one period after the turnover event. The firm performance effects are also temporary, but last for 2 to 5 years after the CAE turnover. Finally, in additional analyses we also find that CAE turnover is positively associated with external audit fees.

Keywords: internal auditor turnover, financial reporting quality, audit risk, chief audit executive (CAE)

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M42, G30

Suggested Citation:

Bills, Kenneth L. and Huang, Hua-Wei and Lin, Yi-Hung Jerry and Wood, David A., The Impact of Chief Audit Executive Turnover in Taiwan (March 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3464557 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3464557
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
Crossref
L J Abbott , Y Park , S Parker
The effects of audit committee activity and independence on corporate fraud
Managerial Finance , volume 26 , issue 11 , p. 55 - 68 Posted: 2000
Crossref
U Anderson
Altamonte Springs, FL: The Institute of Internal Auditors
Research Opportunities in Internal Auditing Posted: 2003
D Aobdia , C J Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 76 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
5 Citations
Joseph V. Carcello , Marc Eulerich , Adi Masli , David A. Wood
Are Internal Audits Associated with Reductions in Perceived Risk?
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 55 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Joseph V. Carcello , Marc Eulerich , Adi Masli , David A. Wood
Are Internal Audits Associated with Reductions in Perceived Risk?
41 Pages · Posted: 18 May 2017 · Last revised: 24 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 1,210
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Marc Eulerich , Joleen Kremin , K. Kelli Saunders , David A. Wood
Internal Audit Stigma Impairs Internal Audit Outcomes
40 Pages · Posted: 16 Nov 2017 · Last revised: 15 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 434
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Marc Eulerich , Adi Masli , Jeffrey Scott Pickerd , David A. Wood
The Impact of Audit Technology on Audit Task Outcomes: Evidence for Technology-Based Audit Techniques
55 Pages · Posted: 4 Sep 2019 · Last revised: 13 Oct 2022 · Downloads: 2,568
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
712
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,061
RANK
82,779
5 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies