Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insider Trading and the Market Abuse Directive: Are Voluntary and Mandatory Takeover Bids Different?

Italian Economic Journal (2021), Vol. 7, No. 3, pp. 461–85

36 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2019 Last revised: 2 Nov 2021

Riccardo Ferretti

Università di Modena e Reggio Emilia - Dipartimento di Comunicazione e Economia

Pierpaolo Pattitoni

University of Bologna, Department of Statistical Sciences; University of Bologna - Rimini Center for Economic Analysis (RCEA)

Roberto Patuelli

University of Bologna - Department of Economics

Date Written: October 14, 2019

Abstract

This study analyzes the effectiveness of the Market Abuse Directive (MAD) in reducing possible profits from insider trading during takeover bids. Exploiting the quasi-experimental setting provided by the introduction of the MAD, our event-study analysis on the Italian market suggests that the new regulation did produce effects, for mandatory offers, on the magnitude of abnormal returns and volumes noted before their announcement. Instead, we find no effect for voluntary offers, which prove to be intrinsically different from the latter ones. Multivariate econometric analyses based on regression and matching methods confirm this result. We interpret our results in light of the choice problem of the optimal amount of insider trading, based on the comparison of marginal costs and benefits of the illegal activity, after considering the differences between voluntary and mandatory offers.

Keywords: Market Abuse Directive, Takeover bids, Event study

JEL Classification: K2, K4, G34, G14

Suggested Citation:

Ferretti, Riccardo and Pattitoni, Pierpaolo and Patuelli, Roberto, Insider Trading and the Market Abuse Directive: Are Voluntary and Mandatory Takeover Bids Different? (October 14, 2019). Italian Economic Journal (2021), Vol. 7, No. 3, pp. 461–85, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3465144
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
G Alexandridis , K P Fuller , L Terhaar , N G Travlos
Deal size, acquisition premia and shareholder gains
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 20 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2013
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
B B Ajinkya , P C Jain
The behaviour of daily stock market trading volume
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 11 , p. 331 - 359 Posted: 1989
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,086
RANK
798,750
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies