Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are CEOs Overpaid? A Brief Look at CEO Incentive Pay and Compensation in the US

Part III of Series of Short Working Papers on Corporate Governance, November 11, 2018

5 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2019

Shomaila L. Maker

Stanford Law School

Date Written: November 11, 2018

Abstract

According to statistics, CEO-to-worker compensation ratio for large publicly traded firms in the U.S. has surged almost fifteen times since the 1960’s. There is also a significant difference between CEO compensation and that of the average earner in the top 0.1 percent category (of around 5.5-to-1). However, the growth in CEO pay does not necessarily reflect correspondingly higher output or better firm performance, nor can the difference between CEO pay and that of the top 0.1 percent earners be explained by greater productivity or more talent. Some argue that, this growth is a form of rent-seeking behavior by CEOs who use their power to extract concessions and set their own pay by virtue of their positions and their control over the board of directors. But, why is this rent-seeking behavior permitted by stakeholders, especially the shareholders? Does this suggest weaknesses in the corporate governance structure which fails to discipline growth of CEO pay, or is the legal framework too weak or ineffective to really matter? Assuming that such high levels of inequality in pay are undesirable from a corporate governance and societal perspective, how can this issue be best tackled?

Keywords: CEO, Incentive Pay, CEO Compensation, Inequality in Pay Ratio

JEL Classification: K00, K20, K22

Suggested Citation:

Maker, Shomaila L., Are CEOs Overpaid? A Brief Look at CEO Incentive Pay and Compensation in the US (November 11, 2018). Part III of Series of Short Working Papers on Corporate Governance, November 11, 2018 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3466648 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3466648
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,113
RANK
294,806
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies