Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investors’ Response to the #MeToo Movement: Does Corporate Culture Matter?

NYU Stern School of Business

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 764/2021

64 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2019 Last revised: 28 Nov 2022

Mary Brooke Billings

New York University

April Klein

New York University (NYU); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Yanting (Crystal) Shi

HEC Paris

Date Written: May 23, 2019

Abstract

This paper provides evidence that the #MeToo movement revised investors’ beliefs about the costs (benefits) of fostering an exclusive (inclusive) culture, as reflected by the absence (presence of a critical mass) of women directors in the board room. Tracking a timeline of events associated with the #MeToo movement that begin with the Harvey Weinstein exposé in October 2017 in the New York Times, we document contrasting market reactions to the movement depending on the existing culture of the firm. Firms that historically excluded women from their board experienced a negative market response as momentum for the cause increased, whereas investors responded favorably to firms that historically embraced the inclusion of women on their boards. In contrast, we do not detect differences in the market’s response to randomly generated pseudo-events during the same time frame when comparing firms with exclusive and inclusive cultures. In the context of increased regulator attention to board gender diversity as well as the ESG activist campaigns by large institutional investors, our study documents a shift in investors’ beliefs about the risks associated with sexual misconduct and about the value of having women in the boardroom shaping the culture of the firm.

Keywords: Board of directors; gender; diversity; corporate culture; ESG

JEL Classification: M14, G34

Suggested Citation:

Billings, Mary Brooke and Klein, April and Shi, Yanting, Investors’ Response to the #MeToo Movement: Does Corporate Culture Matter? (May 23, 2019). NYU Stern School of Business, European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 764/2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3466326 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3466326
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
B Adhikari , A Agrawal , J Malm
Do women managers keep firms out of trouble? Evidence from corporate litigation policies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 202 - 225 Posted: 2019
K Ahern , A Dittmar
The changing of the boards: the impact on firm valuation of mandated female board representation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
N Ahmed
Wall Street is adding a new 'Weinstein Clause' before making deals. Bloomberg Posted: 2018-05-31
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,648
RANK
39,826
30 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies