Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Peer Pressure, CSR Spending, and Long-Term Financial Performance

Forthcoming at Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting and Economics

43 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2019

Mahfuja Malik

Sacred Heart University; Boston University

Md Al Mamun

La Trobe University - Department of Economics and Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Abu S. Amin

Central Michigan University - Department of Finance and Law

Date Written: April 9, 2019

Abstract

This study investigates the role of peer pressure on banks’ Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities and the long-term impacts of their CSR spending on financial performance. We find that a bank’s CSR expenditure increases with that of its peer-banks. However, there is no association between a bank’s CSR expenditure and that of banks of its non-peer group. Additional analysis suggests that a bank’s CSR spending increases not only the current profitability but also its future profitability. This study establishes the evidence of the peer pressure on CSR spending, and the value of CSR in terms of short- and long-term benefits.

Keywords: Corporate Social responsibility, peer pressure, banking industry, profitability

JEL Classification: G30, G39

Suggested Citation:

Malik, Mahfuja and Al Mamun, Md and Amin, Abu S., Peer Pressure, CSR Spending, and Long-Term Financial Performance (April 9, 2019). Forthcoming at Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting and Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3466560 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3466560
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
3 Citations
Md. Borhan Uddin Bhuiyan , Hedy Jiaying Huang , Charl de Villiers
Determinants of Environmental Investment: Evidence from Europe
Journal of Cleaner Production, forthcoming, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper · 27 Pages · Posted: 27 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 131
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Noah Bani-Harouni , Ulrich Hommel , Falko Paetzold
ESG Footprints in Private Equity Portfolios: Unpacking Management Instruments and Financial Performance
JBF-D-23-01154 · 46 Pages · Posted: 8 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 588
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Phuc Minh Nguyen , Christine Jubb , Roshanthi Dias
Motives for Environmental and Social Engagement and Stock Liquidity: The Moderating Role of Sustainability Committees
PBFJ-D-23-00977 · 37 Pages · Posted: 1 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 69
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,109
RANK
333,065
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies