Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Spillover Eﬀects of MD&A Disclosures for Real Investment: The Role of Industry Competition

Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming

77 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2019

Art Durnev

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Claudine Mangen

Concordia University, Montreal - John Molson School of Business

Date Written: October 8, 2019

Abstract

We explore whether disclosures in the Management Discussion & Analysis (MD&A) have spillover eﬀects for investment and investment eﬃciency, and whether spillover eﬀects vary with competition. We focus on the tone of MD&A disclosures and document that the association between a ompany’s investments and the tone of its rivals’ MD&A disclosures is positive. Moreover, this association is stronger when ﬁrms operate in industries that have lower entry costs, are larger, and have less substitutable products. We obtain similar results for investment eﬃciency. Overall, our evidence suggests that MD&A disclosures have spillover eﬀects for investment that can improve investment eﬃciency, and that spillover eﬀects are moderated by industry competition.


Keywords: spillover eﬀects, disclosures, competition, investment, investment eﬃciency

JEL Classification: D43, G31, M4, M4

Suggested Citation:

Durnev, Artyom and Mangen, Claudine, The Spillover Eﬀects of MD&A Disclosures for Real Investment: The Role of Industry Competition (October 8, 2019). Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3466469 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3466469
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell , R Griffith , P Howitt
Competition and innovation: An inverted-U relationship
Q. J. Econ , volume 120 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P Almeida , B Kogut
Localization of knowledge and the mobility of engineers in regional networks
Manag. Sci , volume 45 , p. 905 - 917 Posted: 1999
Crossref
M Arena , B Julio
The effects of securities class action litigation on corporate liquidity and investment policy
J. Financ. Quant. Anal , volume 50 , p. 251 - 275 Posted: 2015
Crossref
H Aslan , P Kumar
The product market effects of hedge fund activism
J. Financ. Econ , volume 119 , p. 226 - 248 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
406
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,290
RANK
165,708
28 Citations
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies