Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Reputation Damage to Firm Culture: Insights from Employee Perceptions Post Financial Misconduct

53 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2019 Last revised: 3 Oct 2023

Siew Hong Teoh

UCLA Anderson School of Management

Yuqing Zhou

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Christos Makridis

Stanford University; Institute for the Future (IFF), Department of Digital Innovation, School of Business, University of Nicosia; The Gallup Organization; Arizona State University (ASU)

Date Written: October 2023

Abstract

We investigate changes in employee perceptions of their firm and managers following the revelation of financial misconduct using employee ratings and comments on Glassdoor.com. We find that employee overall ratings of their company decline by 0.23 standard deviation, and ratings of culture, senior leadership, career opportunity, work-life balance, and employee recommendations also decline, ranging from 0.09 to 0.28 standard deviation. Ratings decline are more pronounced for employees with longer tenure, middle-aged, and full-time status, and for announcements receiving high media attention. Using a machine learning method to analyze employee comments, we find that employees provide fewer positive comments and more negative ones on the topic of firm culture. Employees also mention their intention to leave more frequently in their negative comments and general feedback comments. Collectively, the evidence suggests more negative employee perceptions about their firm following financial misconduct announcements, consistent with reputation damage to the firm culture. These negative sentiments suggest higher labor retention costs and lower productivity after a financial misconduct incident.

Keywords: Corporate Culture, Employee Satisfaction, Financial Misconduct, Reputation Damage

JEL Classification: G3, M4

Suggested Citation:

Teoh, Siew Hong and Zhou, Yuqing and Makridis, Christos, Understanding Reputation Damage to Firm Culture: Insights from Employee Perceptions Post Financial Misconduct (October 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3467787 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3467787
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
M E Barth , M B Clement , G Foster , R Kasznik
Brand Values and Capital Market Valuation
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , p. 41 - 68 Posted: 1998
M Bertrand , E Duflo , S Mullainathan
How much should we trust differences-in-differences estimates?
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 119 , issue 1 , p. 249 - 275 Posted: 2004
J Brown , D Matsa
Boarding a sinking ship? an investigation of job applications to distressed firms
Journal of Finance , volume 71 , p. 507 - 550 Posted: 2016
J Chakravarthy , E Dehaan , S
Reputation Repair After a Serious Restatement
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 4 , p. 1329 - 1363 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
696
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,991
RANK
85,245
11 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies