Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparative Case Study on Accountability of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Practices in Oman Lng and Omifco at Sur City in Oman

Humanities & Social Sciences Reviews,7(5), 490-502, DOI:10.18510/hssr.2019.7556

13 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2019 Last revised: 2 Nov 2019

Hilal Al Salmi

University of Technology Malaysia, Azman Hashim International Business School, Department of Business Administration, Students

Firdouse Rahman Khan

Sohar University - Faculty of Business

Date Written: October 9, 2019

Abstract

Purpose: The objective of the study is to familiarize policy makers and practitioners in both the companies in their achievements of CSR projects and specialization by comparing Corporate Social Responsibility Practices (CSR) in Oman Liquefied Natural Gas Company LLC (Oman LNG) and Oman India Fertilizer Company (OMIFCO).

Design /methodology/approach: A questionnaire survey was adopted and the details of the companies’ business CSR approaches, CSR projects, measurements of CSR projects, disclosure, and challenges, in the long run, were obtained from the CSR experts in the companies. Further, secondary data was also collected from the companies’ websites, annual reports, and CSR bulletins.

Findings: The results of the study indicate that both the companies contribute to society in a positive way as they are accountable to implement CSR as they are the main players in Sur.

Both the companies, value developing a practical CSR strategy in their business model concerning customers, stakeholders, contractors, and suppliers, more importantly,the society. However, there is no systematic approach and assessment approach to the level of impact on their CSR projects.

Research Limitations / Implications: It is suggested that there is a need to establish a formal mean of dialogue between both the companies and the rest of the stakeholders in order to harmonize CSR projects so that replication of projects can be avoided.

To achieve harmony of CSR projects, it is necessary to unite and share the best practices and innovative initiatives of CSR, through the development of a guide to familiarize the CSR concepts along with the tools and methodologies.

Practical Implications: It can be seen that setting measurable goals, techniques, sustainability issue mapping, sustainability management system, life cycle assessment and CSR reporting are the significant gaps in the CSR approach of both the companies and the model practices should prescribe the same.

Originality/value: This is the first-hand study of its kind as there is no comparative study of O&G companies has been done.

Suggested Citation:

Al Salmi, Hilal and Khan, Firdouse, A Comparative Case Study on Accountability of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Practices in Oman Lng and Omifco at Sur City in Oman (October 9, 2019). Humanities & Social Sciences Reviews,7(5), 490-502, DOI:10.18510/hssr.2019.7556, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3468414
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Samuel Ajayi , Loveth Ovharhe
The Effect of Corporate Social Responsibility on the Performance and Growth of the Oil & Gas Industry in Nigeria a Case Study of Nigeria LNG Limited
Pages: 52 Posted: 10 Mar 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Al Matani , A N Voet , B P Bosma , P
Oman LNG 2000 -2005 The First Five Years of Operation GasTech , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2005-03
Al Salmi , H
Corporate Social Responsibility Best Practies n Oman and the World Posted: 2018
Al Shezawi , H A Khan , F R
In-Country Value (ICV)-Entrepreneurial Opportunities in the Companies of Oman
International Journal of Management, Innovation & Entrepreneurial Research , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 41 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
368
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,235
RANK
185,154
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies