Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nexus Between Intellectual Capital Disclosure and Corporate Governance Quality: Evidence from IT Companies in India

Sumedha Journal of Management; Hyderabad Vol. 7, Iss. 2, (Apr-Jun 2018): 199-21

Posted: 19 Dec 2019

Yusaf harun

Presidency University

V. Kavida

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 14, 2018

Abstract

Present days economic situations are changing rapidly. In view of liberalization, globalization and privatization, the business organization is more towards following the system which not only caters to the national standard but also to cater information needed by the stakeholders to make decisions about the corporates. Prior studies are underlining that traditional information provided by the companies in the annual reports are not sufficient for the stakeholders to reach into the right decision. Hence the importance of disclosing additional information on intellectual capital and social, environment and governance practices of companies arisen. Such disclosure can give a further hand for the company on the market price and the previous studies are identified that the difference between one company's book value and market value is the effect made by the IC of the company. This paper is given an attempt to identify the extent of intellectual capital disclosure and the nexus between intellectual capital disclosure and corporate governance disclosure of IT companies in India. The study has revealed that the IT companies in India are decently reporting the information on IC for the selected period and the companies are giving more importance for relational capital. The current study identified that there have a significant relationship with IC disclosure and corporate governance disclosure practices among the selected companies.

Keywords: Intellectual capital disclosure, corporate governance disclosure, NSE IT index

JEL Classification: g,m

Suggested Citation:

Harun, Yusaf and Kavida, V., Nexus Between Intellectual Capital Disclosure and Corporate Governance Quality: Evidence from IT Companies in India (June 14, 2018). Sumedha Journal of Management; Hyderabad Vol. 7, Iss. 2, (Apr-Jun 2018): 199-21, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3469442
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
426
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies