Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Networks and Shareholder Litigation

54 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2019 Last revised: 14 Jan 2020

William R. McCumber

College of Business, Louisiana Tech University

Lingna Sun

Louisiana Tech University

Date Written: October 14, 2019

Abstract

This paper documents that firms led by Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) with greater network power and influence are more likely to be subject to securities class action (SCA) lawsuits, and that these lawsuits are more likely to led by institutional investors. Firms with more connected CEOs are more likely to have their firms’ cases dismissed, or, subject to the suit surviving a motion to dismiss, have lower settlement amounts than firms whose CEOs are less connected. The suits appear to be an alternative method of governance in that defendant firms with highly central CEOs are more likely to replace the CEO and increase the independence of the board in the years following the SCA. We find that the market values the suits, regardless of the immediate outcome, as cumulative abnormal returns around the announcement of the suit are highest for firms with highly connected CEOs. Further, CEOs whose firms are subject to SCA alternative governance suffer decreases in network power subsequent to the SCA.

Keywords: executive networks, corporate governance, shareholder litigation, institutional investors

JEL Classification: G34, K41

Suggested Citation:

McCumber, William R. and Sun, Lingna, CEO Networks and Shareholder Litigation (October 14, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3469794 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3469794
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
V Khanna , E H Kim , Y Lu
CEO connectedness and corporate fraud
Journal of Finance , volume 70 , p. 1203 - 1252 Posted: 2015
Crossref
I Kim , D J Skinner
Measuring securities litigation risk
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 290 - 310 Posted: 2012
Crossref
D Levit
Soft shareholder activism
Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , p. 2275 - 2808 Posted: 2019
Crossref
W R Mccumber , H Qiu
Executive networks and non-GAAP disclosure Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,544
RANK
357,435
1 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies