Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Quality, Incentive Factors and Voluntary Corporate Governance Disclosures in Annual Reports of Malaysian Publicly Listed Companies

Corporate Ownership & Control, 2012

Posted: 10 Nov 2019

Norziana Lokman

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM)

Julie Cotter

University of Southern Queensland

Joseph M. Mula

Faculty of Business and Law, University of Southern Queensland

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

This paper investigates the relationship between corporate governance quality and voluntary disclosure of corporate governance information for listed companies in Malaysia. The moderating impacts of incentive factors (capital market transactions and stock-based incentives) on this relationship are also examined. Corporate governance quality is measured using a comprehensive index. The empirical evidence of this study is broadly consistent with the notion that high corporate governance quality is positively related to a greater extent of voluntary disclosure. Stock-based compensation significantly influences the relationship between corporate governance quality and voluntary disclosures; however the other incentive factors examined do not appear to influence the relationship.

Keywords: Corporate Governance Quality, Voluntary Disclosure, Incentive Factors, Malaysia

Suggested Citation:

Lokman, Norziana and Cotter, Julie and Mula, Joseph M., Corporate Governance Quality, Incentive Factors and Voluntary Corporate Governance Disclosures in Annual Reports of Malaysian Publicly Listed Companies (2012). Corporate Ownership & Control, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3470481
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
577
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies