Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Mechanism on Intellectual Capital Disclosure Evidence From Indian Listed Companies

International Journal of Management and Economics, Vol. I No. 30, May-2019

9 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2019

V. Kavida

Pondicherry University - Department of Commerce

Yusaf harun

Presidency University

E. Murshid

Pondicherry University - Department of Commerce

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

Here this paper means for, to understand the connection between audit committee mechanisms on non -financial information reporting with particular to intellectual capital. In order to study the relationship, data are collected from BSE Sensex listed companies top with their market capitalization for the period of 2017-2018. The content analysis has been applied to calculate the intellectual capital disclosure rate for the selected companies and later, multiple regression has been applied to check the nexus among audit committee attributes with intellectual capital reporting. The study identified that there is a significant effect by audit committee size on intellectual capital disclosure and surprisingly seen an unexpected negative relationship among independence of audit committee with intellectual capital disclosure. So this study argues that function of the audit committee have to be extended to ensure the quality of reporting by including relevant non-financial information like intellectual capital.

Keywords: Governance, Audit Committee, Intellectual Capital Reporting

JEL Classification: G, M

Suggested Citation:

Kavida, V. and Harun, Yusaf and Murshid, E., Audit Committee Mechanism on Intellectual Capital Disclosure Evidence From Indian Listed Companies (2019). International Journal of Management and Economics, Vol. I No. 30, May-2019 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3471805 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3471805
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
888
RANK
469,965
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies