Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Malpractices in Corporate Governance and the Way Out: A Challenge to Corporate India

TREASURY MANAGEMENT, April 2009, IUP Publications

10 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2019 Last revised: 28 Feb 2023

Dr. Ashok Kumar Panigrahi

SVKM's Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS)

Date Written: April 30, 2009

Abstract

Corporate governance has become the latest buzzword in the corporate sector in India thanks to the Satyam scandal. Ramalinga Raju's disclosures about forging the company's accounts have come as a deep shock. The issue is all the more grave since this company has, ironically, received many accolades for good corporate governance. Thus there is an immediate need to examine the loopholes in regulation, accounting, audit, and governance in order to arrest the occurrence of such lapses in the future and also to rebuild the confidence of the investors in the financial markets. This article highlights the major loopholes in the existing governance system and suggests measures to make the corporate governance system more effective and efficient.

Corporate governance is a broad concept and has been defined and understood differently by different groups and at different points of time. The earliest definition of Corporate governance is from The Economist and Nobel Laureate Milton Friedman. According to him "Corporate governance is to conduct the business in accordance with owner or shareholders' desires, which generally will be to make as much money as possible while conforming to the basic rules of the society embodied in law and local customs."

The Cadbury Committee report defines it as "the system by which companies are directed and controlled. It is generally understood as the framework of rules, relationships, systems and processes within and by which authority is exercised and controlled in corporations." The Kumar Mangalam Birla Committee report defines the fundamental objective of corporate governance as the "enhancement of the long-term shareholder value while at the same time protecting the interests of other stakeholders."

Hence, corporate governance can be understood to be a systematic process by which companies are directed & controlled to ensure that they are managed in a manner that meets stakeholders' aspirations and societal expectations. This leads to the corporate governance philosophies of Trusteeship; Transparency; Empowerment & Accountability; Control and Ethical Corporate Behavior.

Keywords: Treasury Management Magazine, Corporate Governance, Corporate Sector, Ethical Corporate Behavior, Decision making process, Stock Exchange Listing Agreements, Financial Reporting, Securities and Exchange Board of India, SEBI, Organizational Structure, Economic Environment, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Ind

Suggested Citation:

Panigrahi, Ashok, Malpractices in Corporate Governance and the Way Out: A Challenge to Corporate India (April 30, 2009). TREASURY MANAGEMENT, April 2009, IUP Publications, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3471792
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,103
RANK
735,901
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies