Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Executive Management on Internal Auditing Quality Under the Agency’s Problem: Evidence From Egypt

International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting 9 (4), 41-63, 2019

23 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2019

Osama Wagdi

Management Sciences Department, Akhbar Alyom Academy

Amira Hasaneen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Madyha Metwally

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 23, 2019

Abstract

The study provides a framework for determinants of an impact of Executive Management on internal auditing quality according to eight dimensions (1) leadership style of executive management, (2) Organizational Culture, (3) operation cost of internal auditing, (4) providing information and disclosure for internal auditor (5) cooperation and facilitation from executive management (6) the attitude of executive management of earnings management, (7) the attitude of executive management for creative accounting and (8) professional ethics of executive management. The population of the study is Egyptian manufacturing firms listing at EGX and their employees. Accordingly, the number of received questionnaires was 392 from 28 firms in the first half of 2019 but the financial reports for 2018. The study found the impact of executive management on internal auditing quality, and it is significant at 0.01 level. According to adjusted R-squared; executive management interprets (97.1%) of an internal auditing quality level. Finally; the current framework of corporate governance need to take into organizational characteristics, as well as the ethical and behavioural variables, with than further controls on the Board of Directors, as well as ensuring the independence of internal audit to maximize the quality of internal audit.

Keywords: Executive Management; Agency's Problem; Internal Auditing Quality

JEL Classification: M12, M14,M42

Suggested Citation:

Wagdi, Osama and Hasaneen, Amira and Metwally, Madyha, The Impact of Executive Management on Internal Auditing Quality Under the Agency’s Problem: Evidence From Egypt (October 23, 2019). International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting 9 (4), 41-63, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3472226
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
E A Abou Hashish
Relationship between ethical work climate and nurses' perception of organizational support, commitment, job satisfaction and turnover intent
Nursing Ethics , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 151 - 166 Posted: 2017
Crossref
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: evidence from the S&P 500
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B Arel , C A Beaudoin , A M Cianci
The impact of ethical leadership, the internal audit function, and moral intensity on a financial reporting decision
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 351 - 366 Posted: 2012
Crossref
L Balkaran
Auditing the Corporate Governance Effort in an Organization
EDPACS: The EDP Audit, Control, and Security Newsletter , volume 48 , issue 4 , p. 12 - 18 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
924
RANK
375,436
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies