Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Dual-Holders and Managers’ Earnings Disclosure

Forthcoming, The Accounting Review https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2019-0623

56 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2019 Last revised: 10 Jun 2021

Leila Peyravan

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Regina Wittenberg Moerman

Northwestern University

Date Written: March 23, 2019

Abstract

We investigate how institutional (non-commercial bank) investors that simultaneously invest in a firm’s debt and equity (dual-holders) influence the firm’s voluntary disclosure. Because institutional dual-holders trade on private information gleaned through lending relationships, we predict and find that borrowers increase earnings forecast disclosure to reduce these investors’ information advantage following the origination of loans with their participation. We also show that the increase in disclosure is stronger when the access to a borrower’s private information endows dual-holders with a greater information advantage and when the consequences of this access are likely to be more pronounced for the firm. We further find that institutional dual-holders earn excess returns when trading equity of non-guider firms following loan origination, but not when firms issue guidance, confirming that earnings disclosure helps level the playing field among investors. Our findings highlight that firms actively use disclosure to mitigate the adverse effect of dual-holders on their information environment.

Keywords: Dual-holders, disclosure, informed trading

JEL Classification: G21, G23, G30

Suggested Citation:

Peyravan, Leila and Wittenberg Moerman, Regina, Institutional Dual-Holders and Managers’ Earnings Disclosure (March 23, 2019). Forthcoming, The Accounting Review https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2019-0623, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3472494 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3472494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
579
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,443
RANK
108,012
8 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies