Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO-CFO Compatibility and Audit Risk

51 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2019 Last revised: 6 Sep 2022

Robert M. Bowen

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros School of Business & Economics; University of Washington - Foster School of Business

S. Jane (Kennedy) Jollineau

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros School of Business & Economics; University of Washington - Foster School of Business

Sarah C Lyon

University of San Diego

Shavin Malhotra

University of Waterloo

Pengcheng Zhu

University of San Diego - School of Business Administration

Date Written: August 30, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the influence of CEO-CFO compatibility (proxied by the similarity of their personalities) on audit risk (proxied by audit fees). Relying on similarity-attraction theory, we posit that the alignment of the CEO and CFO’s personalities—specifically their “Big Five” traits—enhances internal communication, information sharing, and decision-making processes within the organization, thereby reducing audit risk associated with a firm’s financial reporting. We test our theory using firm fixed effects and find that greater CEO-CFO personality similarity is associated with reduced audit fees. Further, we find that the tenure of the CEO-CFO relationship partially explains the relation between their personality similarity and audit fees. Finally, we find that the effect of CEO-CFO personality similarity on audit fees is stronger when corporate governance allows greater managerial autonomy, i.e., CEO-CFO compatibility is more important for reducing audit risk when corporate governance is weak. Our results are robust after controlling for many other characteristics of the CEO and CFO, and potential endogeneity related to CEO turnover.

Keywords: top management team (TMT); audit fees; engagement risk; CEO-CFO harmony and compatibility; personality similarities and differences; auditor tenure

JEL Classification: D81, D83, D91, G41, M12, M42

Suggested Citation:

Bowen, Robert M. and Kennedy Jollineau, S. Jane and Lyon, Sarah C and Malhotra, Shavin and Zhu, Pengcheng, CEO-CFO Compatibility and Audit Risk (August 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3473963 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3473963
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
B Adebambo , R M Bowen , S Malhotra , P Zhu
CEO extraversion and firm risk Posted: 2021
S Abraham , M Bamber
The Q&A: Under surveillance. Accounting, Organizations, and Society , volume 58 , p. 15 - 31 Posted: 2017
AU-C Section 315. Understanding the entity and its environment and assessing the risks of material misstatement Posted: 2018
S Bandyopadhyay , J Kao
Market Structure and Audit Fees: A Local Analysis
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 529 - 561 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
762
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,712
RANK
75,826
1 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies