Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Short-Selling Potential Influence Mergers and Acquisitions Payment Choice?

55 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2019 Last revised: 12 Dec 2020

Marie Dutordoir

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Norman C. Strong

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Ping Sun

University of Exeter Business School

Date Written: December 10, 2020

Abstract

Announcements of stock-financed mergers and acquisitions (M&As) may attract short selling of bidder shares by merger arbitrageurs. We hypothesize that bidders with higher short-selling potential include a higher proportion of cash in their M&A payments to reduce price pressure resulting from arbitrage short sales. Consistent with this prediction, we find a positive impact of the ex-ante net lending supply of bidder shares on the percentage of cash in public target payments. We corroborate this result in a placebo analysis and several robustness tests. Our paper adds to a growing literature analyzing the interplay between corporate and investor behavior.

Keywords: merger arbitrage, M&A payment, short selling

JEL Classification: G23, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Dutordoir, Marie and Strong, Norman Charles and Sun, Ping, Does Short-Selling Potential Influence Mergers and Acquisitions Payment Choice? (December 10, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3473845 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3473845
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economic Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Y Amihud , B Lev , N G Travlos
Corporate control and the choice of investment financing: The case of corporate acquisitions
Journal of Finance , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 603 - 616 Posted: 1990
Crossref
J D Angrist , A B Krueger
Instrumental variables and the search for identification: From supply and demand to natural experiments
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 69 - 85 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J D Angrist , J-S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
384
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,472
RANK
176,588
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies