Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association of CEO’s Social Connections with CEO’s Excess Return from Compensation Arrangements

52 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2019

Mark J. Kohlbeck

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Chris He

Marquette University

Date Written: October 21, 2019

Abstract

We investigate whether CEO’s social connections are systematically associated with the financial incentive alignment between the CEO and shareholders. The existing CEO compensation literature provides a mix of empirical evidence on whether rent extraction or shareholder value view dominates. We test these two classic theories in the context of the association of CEO social connections with CEO excess return from compensation. We find a negative association supporting the shareholder value view. Consistent with the shareholder value view, we also find that well-connected CEOs who earn lower excess returns from compensation have a positive impact on future firm performance. Finally, we find that a well-connected CEO who has external connections with the compensation committee members offset the overall effect and earn higher excess returns from compensation. Overall, the results of our study are consistent with the shareholder value view. However, the results also support the rent extraction view when the compensation committee members are a part of the CEO’s social network as the CEO is able to extract personal benefits at the expense of shareholders.

Keywords: executive compensation, social capital, social networks, agency theory

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Kohlbeck, Mark J. and He, Zhijian, The Association of CEO’s Social Connections with CEO’s Excess Return from Compensation Arrangements (October 21, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3474561 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3474561
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
D Acemoglu , A Ozdaglar , A Tahbaz-Salehi
The network origins of large economic downturns Posted: 2013
Crossref
B Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
Crossref
F Akbas , F Meschke , B Wintoki
Director networks and informed traders
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2016
Crossref
C Anderson , M Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,020
RANK
552,669
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies