Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Ownership Vis-a-Vis Disclosure: Evidence From India

Corporate Governance and Innovative Economic Development of the North, Issue - 3, pp. 45-55 (2019)

Posted: 4 Nov 2019 Last revised: 3 Aug 2020

Shakti Deb

KIIT School of Law; KIIT School of Law

Indrajit Dube

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur - Rajiv Gandhi School of Intellectual Property Law (RGSOIPL)

Date Written: October 18, 2019

Abstract

Corporate disclosure stands as an essential facet of corporate governance. In today's globalized world, the corporate organizational structure and their operations are moving towards complexities. Thus corporate disclosure has also taken on a new connotation of comprehensive and reliable disclosures instead of the mere release of redundant information. Adequate and timely information is a global concern to ensure corporate accountability. In spite of several regulatory efforts to converge reporting stand-ards, the extent of corporate disclosure varies across cor-porations. Corporations' disclosure practice grown endogenously and variations of disclosure practices can be due to change in incentives of disclosure. Pieces of literature on corporate disclosures practices have documented that corporate ownership structure influences disclosure practices. The research empirically examined the impact of corporate ownership on corporate disclosure in Indian perspective and disclosure practices made by the corporations. Descriptive method is used by the researcher to demonstrate the longitudinal trend of corporate ownership structure. Pearson correlation analysis was undertaken to examine the strength of the linear relationship between corporate ownership and disclosure. The finding on the association between promoter ownership and corporate disclosure contradicts with the conclusions of existing literatures in developed market context, which asserts that companies with concentrated ownership discloses less information compared to companies with dispersed holding structure. The negative correlation between institutional investors, non-institutional investors; and level of disclosure implicates an absence of markets in India to push for compliance with voluntary disclosure norms. Analyzing these findings on correlation, the research suggested reforms in the existing legal framework in a mandatory approach. Future research can be done on the impact of corporate ownership and disclosure after accounting the moderating and mediating factors of corporate disclosure. The index used in this research is an un-weighted disclosure index; when a weighted disclosure index will be employed by future researchers, the results might be different.

Keywords: Dispersed, Concentrated, Institutional, Non-Institutional, Ownership, Governance, Disclosure, Executive, Succession, Risk, Creditors, Shareholders, Credit Rating

Suggested Citation:

Deb, Shakti and Dube, Indrajit, Corporate Ownership Vis-a-Vis Disclosure: Evidence From India (October 18, 2019). Corporate Governance and Innovative Economic Development of the North, Issue - 3, pp. 45-55 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3474824
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
495
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies