Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Incentives Contracts Lead to Higher Risk-Taking? The Impact of Executives' Characteristics

Proceedings of Paris December 2019 Finance Meeting EUROFIDAI - ESSEC

27 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2019

François Desmoulins-Lebeault

Grenoble Ecole de Management - Grenoble Graduate School of Business

Jean-Francois Gajewski

University Jean Moulin Lyon 3

Luc Meunier

Grenoble Ecole de Management; University of Savoy - Institut de Recherche en Gestion et Économie (IREGE)

Date Written: October 25, 2019

Abstract

Stock-option compensation is coherent with the principle of agency theory, by encouraging risk averse executives to take a more risk neutral stance. However, it is unclear whether the contract is actually more powerful than personal characteristics in shaping decision-making. We compare experimentally the risk aversion and prudence of 100 participants under a stock-option incentive contract and a classic equity granting one. We measure a number of personality variables, as well as cortisol and testosterone levels, which have been related to risk taking in previous studies. We first underline that stock-options contract indeed drives more risk neutral behaviour, both regarding variance and skewness. This effect is mainly driven by a shift in focus from losses to gains. Loss aversion and higher cortisol levels were linked to a preference for the safer equity contract. Second, we show that cortisol and testosterone levels are linked to preferences for variance and skewness, often in a quadratic fashion. Third, we show that this impact is actually stronger than the one of the contract, both in terms of predictive power and economic effect. Therefore, our study highlights the impact of personality and even biological variables on risk taking, and underline the need for a behavioural approach of contract setting.

Suggested Citation:

Desmoulins-Lebeault, François and Gajewski, Jean-Francois and Meunier, Luc, Do Incentives Contracts Lead to Higher Risk-Taking? The Impact of Executives' Characteristics (October 25, 2019). Proceedings of Paris December 2019 Finance Meeting EUROFIDAI - ESSEC, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3475421 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3475421
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
C Apicella , A Dreber , B Campbell , P Gray , M Hoffman , A Little
Testosterone and financial risk preferences
Evolution and Human Behavior , volume 29 , issue 6 , p. 384 - 390 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J Carré , A Dreber
Testosterone and economic risk taking: a review
Adaptive Human Behavior and Physiology , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 358 - 385 Posted: 2015
H Bahaji
Incentives from stock option grants: a behavioral approach
Review of Accounting and Finance , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 200 - 227 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Becker , T Deckers , T Dohmen , A Falk , F Kosse
The relationship between economic preferences and psychological personality measures
Annu. Rev. Econ , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 453 - 478 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,306
RANK
826,677
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies