Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Variability in Cash Flows and Returns Influence How Top Executives Are Paid?

Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy 20(3): 369-410 (2019)

42 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2019

Kwadwo N. Asare

Bryant University

Date Written: October 24, 2019

Abstract

I invoke agency theory to evaluate how top executives’ compensation contracts are structured, conditional on risk in the firm’s operating environment, focusing on the total, fixed, and variable components. The results suggest that companies exert some effort to adhere to agency theoretic principles in designing top executive compensation contracts. However, imperfections in the pay setting process mean that there is ample room for powerful CEOs to seek rents. Furthermore, when risk in the operating environment is measured with volatility in returns, non-CEO top executives sometimes bear greater risk than CEOs, collecting a greater percentage of their compensation in variable pay than most CEOs. The results are most distinct in the extreme deciles of volatility, suggesting that firms may be paying greater attention to compensation design in the most extreme settings of volatility. I offer potential explanations for this phenomenon.

Keywords: compensation, top executives, CEOs, agency theory, volatility; risk

JEL Classification: J41, M41, M55

Suggested Citation:

Asare, Kwadwo N., How Does Variability in Cash Flows and Returns Influence How Top Executives Are Paid? (October 24, 2019). Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy 20(3): 369-410 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3475100
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
632
RANK
791,953
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies