Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Addressing the Auditor Independence Puzzle: Regulatory Models and Proposal for Reform

Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, vol. 53, pp. 787-827 (2020)

Fordham Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 3476683

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 479/2019

47 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2019 Last revised: 20 Nov 2020

Martin Gelter

Fordham University School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Aurelio Gurrea-Martínez

Singapore Management University - Yong Pung How School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: October 28, 2019

Abstract

Auditors play a major role in corporate governance and capital markets. Ex ante, auditors facilitate firms’ access to finance by fostering trust among public investors. Ex post, auditors can prevent misbehavior and financial fraud by corporate insiders. In order to fulfill these goals, however, in addition to having the adequate knowledge and expertise, auditors must perform their functions in an independent manner. However, auditors are often subject to conflicts of interest, for example, resulting from the provision non-audit services, but also because of the mere fact of being hired and paid by the audited company. Therefore, even if auditors act independently, investors may have reason to think otherwise. Policymakers and scholars around the world have attempted to solve the auditor independence puzzle through a variety of mechanisms, including prohibitions and rotation requirements. More recent proposals have also included breaking up audit firms and the empowerment of shareholders. This paper argues that none of these solutions is entirely convincing. Drawing from the corporate governance, law and economics, and accounting literatures, we propose a new model to solve the auditor independence puzzle. Our proposal is based on four pillars. First, we argue that, in the context of controlled firms, auditors should be elected with a majority-of-the-minority vote. Second, while auditors in many jurisdictions are subject to certain temporal prohibitions to be hired by previous clients, we propose that the length of these temporal prohibitions should be extended. Moreover, regulators should also restrict the type of services potentially provided to the audit client. Third, policymakers must pay closer attention to the internal governance and compensation systems of audit firms. We argue that increased transparency of audit firms is essential to enhance the independence of auditors. Finally, studies have shown that audit committees often fail to perform their monitoring functions, a major reason being the influence of corporate insiders on the committee. For this reason, we propose to increase the power and presence of public investors in the audit committee.

Keywords: auditing, accounting, Big 4, Enron, Sarbanes-Oxley, EU Audit Directive, EU Audit Regulation, gatekeepers, quasi-rents, auditor rotation, non-audit services, majority-of-the-minority approval, auditor compensation, transparency reports, audit firm governance

JEL Classification: K22, M42

Suggested Citation:

Gelter, Martin and Gurrea-Martínez, Aurelio, Addressing the Auditor Independence Puzzle: Regulatory Models and Proposal for Reform (October 28, 2019). Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, vol. 53, pp. 787-827 (2020), Fordham Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 3476683, European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 479/2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3476683 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3476683
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
See supra notes 80-81 and accompanying text
E G See , Maria Gutierrez &amp; Maribel , Saez
Deconstructing Independent Directors
13 J. CORP. L. STUD Posted: 2013
Wolf-Georg Ringe
BUS. ORG. L. REV Posted: 2013
Crossref
Umakanth Varottil, Evolution and Effectiveness of Independent Directors in Indian Corporate Governance, 6 HASTINGS BUS
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
649
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,088
RANK
93,293
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fordham Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies