Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impax Laboratories: Executing Accretive Acquisitions (A&B)

HBS Case Nos. 220-030 and 220-031

Posted: 11 Nov 2019 Last revised: 14 Nov 2019

Benjamin Esty

Harvard Business School

Daniel Fisher

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Date Written: October 31, 2019

Abstract

Impax Laboratories was a technology-based pharmaceutical company that used a “dual platform” strategy to sell both generic and branded treatments. While Impax had grown organically for most of its history, it was beginning to use major acquisitions for growth. In the early morning of June 21, 2016, the firm issued a press release announcing it was buying a portfolio of generic drugs from Teva for $586 million in cash. The leadership team (CEO, CFO, and Head of Investor Relations) was now preparing for a conference call with analysts and investors to describe the deal’s acquisition price, strategic rationale, and financial impact. Like its first major acquisition — the acquisition of Tower Holdings in 2014 for $700 million — the Teva acquisition was expected to be immediately accretive (i.e., the acquisition would cause the firm’s expected earnings per share in 2016 would increase). Was the leadership team ready to answer the full range of questions investors might ask and to explain the deal’s strategic rationale and financial implications in compelling ways? And would investors react as favorably to the Teva announcement as they had when Impax announced the Tower Holdings acquisition — Impax closed up 12% that day? The B Case is a continuation of the events described in the A Case.

This case explores the concepts of earnings guidance and EPS accretion in the context of a major acquisition. In addition to calculating expected accretion, students must explain why executives, analysts, and investors focus so intensively on short-term earnings. To what extent is accretion value relevant? The case is also designed for students to assess Impax’s “dual platform” strategy which involves selling both generic and branded treatments. Students must assess whether the firm’s technology-based strategy provides a sustainable competitive advantage in the highly competitive market for generic drugs where Impax is a relatively small player.

Keywords: mergers, acquisitions, accounting, accretion, dilution, earnings per share, pharmaceuticals, conference call, non-GAAP earnings, generic drugs, M&A, capital structure, competitive advantage, corporate strategy, competition

JEL Classification: G34, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Esty, Benjamin C. and Fisher, Daniel, Impax Laboratories: Executing Accretive Acquisitions (A&B) (October 31, 2019). HBS Case Nos. 220-030 and 220-031, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3478615
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
636
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies