Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Technology & Green Initiative – A tool for effective Corporate Governance

39th National Convention of Company Secretaries, pp 206-212, 2011

12 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2019

Devendra Jarwal

University of Delhi

Date Written: October 15, 2011

Abstract

Corporate Governance reform across the globe has assumed greater importance in the last couple of years. The global reform effort and policy maker’s interest in corporate governance has accelerated in the wake of advancement of information technology. The increased performance and availability at reduced cost of microelectronics, fiber optics, voice and video compression, fast-packet switching and high-density storage technology could be utilized to make corporate governance more efficient. Technology convergence due to digitization, wide band transmission, 3G Technology, compression technologies and standard development lends support for the low cost provision for compliance such as video conferencing, e-filing of documents which may be accessed by public as well as stakeholders and electronic voting instead of postal ballot etc. The so called advancement of Information Technology has prompted Ministry of Corporate Governance to take Green Initiative, which could prove useful in implementing effective corporate governance practices and at the same time tackle issues like environmental hazards, global warming, lack of transparency and cost involved in paper work.

Keywords: Information Technology, Green Technology, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: E60, O00

Suggested Citation:

Jarwal, Devendra, Information Technology & Green Initiative – A tool for effective Corporate Governance (October 15, 2011). 39th National Convention of Company Secretaries, pp 206-212, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3479956 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3479956
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
759
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies