Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Market Consequences of Expectations Management in the Postregulation Fair Disclosure Period

Accounting & Taxation, v. 11 (1) p. 11-20

10 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2020

Sherry Fang Li

Rider University

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

This paper investigates the capital market consequences of expectations management in the postRegulation Fair Disclosure period. Results show that investors “punish” firms that deliberately issue pessimistic public guidance to dampen analysts’ expectations to a beatable level in the post-Regulation Fair Disclosure Era. I find that on average, the negative stock price effects caused by management’s pessimistic guidance dominate the positive stock price effects associated with the positive earnings surprises. Furthermore, both the short-term stock return over the combined guidance plus earnings announcement window and the long-term total period return are more negative for guidance firms than for firms that do not guide and thus miss financial analysts’ expectations.

Keywords: Expectations Management, Earnings Guidance, Managerial Guidance, Regulation Fair Disclosure, Analysts’ Expectations, Capital Market

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Fang Li, Sherry, Capital Market Consequences of Expectations Management in the Postregulation Fair Disclosure Period (2019). Accounting & Taxation, v. 11 (1) p. 11-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3480690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
E Bartov , D Givoly , C Hayn
The Rewards to Meeting or Beating Earnings Expectations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2002
Crossref
S Bhojraj , P Hribar , M Picconi , J Mcinnis
Making Sense of Cents: An Examination of Firms That Marginally Miss or Beat Analyst Forecasts
The Journal of Finance , volume 64 , issue 5 , p. 2359 - 2386 Posted: 2009
Crossref
L Brown
A Temporal Analysis of Earnings Surprises: Profits vs. Losses
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 221 - 241 Posted: 2001
Crossref
L Brown , M L Caylor
A Temporal Analysis of Quarterly Earnings Thresholds: Propensities and Valuation Consequences
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 501 - 539 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
449
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies