Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Payout Policy of Politically Connected Firms: Tunnelling vs. Reputation

26 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2019

Félix J. López-Iturriaga

Universidad de Valladolid - Department of Finance and Accounting

Domingo J. J. Santana‐Martín

University of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria

Date Written: November 4, 2019

Abstract

Using the firms’ directors who have a background in politics as a measure of political connections, we analyze the relationship between political ties and dividend policy in a sample of listed Spanish firms. We find that political connections are positively related with cash dividends. This result is consistent with a concern about the interests of minority shareholders in the politically connected firms or with the less financial constraints of these firms. We also find a positive relationship between political connections and share repurchases, a way of shareholder compensation that is gaining popularity. This result could be related to the valuation of politically connected firms. Our results are robust to alternative empirical specifications such as the propensity score matching procedure, different metrics of payout policy, and different levels of political connections. Interestingly, the recent financial crisis has not changed the preferences of connected firms for shareholders compensation with dividends and share repurchases.

Keywords: Political connections, dividends, dominant owners, share repurchases, board of directors

JEL Classification: G34, G35

Suggested Citation:

Lopez-Iturriaga, Felix Javier and Santana-Martín, Domingo J., The Payout Policy of Politically Connected Firms: Tunnelling vs. Reputation (November 4, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3480616 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3480616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Andrés Fernando Mejía-Amaya , Carlos Pombo
Political connections of executives and directors: relevant facts to understand the impact of politicians on firm valuation
38 Pages · Posted: 20 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 48
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
718
RANK
864,457
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies