Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sense and Nonsense in ESG Scoring

NYU Stern School of Business

39 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2019

Ingo Walter

New York University - Leonard N. Stern School of Business; New York University (NYU) - Department of Finance

Date Written: November 5, 2019

Abstract

Concerns about the future of the natural environment, prevailing social conditions, and governance of private and public institutions inspire today’s ESG movement. None of these concerns are new. But they have gained much traction from the techno-communication revolution alongside a growing populist focus on “stakeholder” claims. This paper proposes a coherent heuristic for sorting out the elements of a social control platform that captures the key elements of the ESG movement from the perspective of modern business firms and investment funds that mostly operate under the classic conditions of market discipline. The diagnostic radiates from regulatory constraints anchored in legislation – and that bear most directly on the enterprise – outward to much less tractable areas of business conduct subject to claims and values that may or may not be generally accepted. The ESG ratings industry attempts to identify, calibrate and condense corporate and investor conduct across a wide spectrum of behavior against the benchmarks of normative ESG values. The industrial economics of the large and growing ESG ratings industry is discussed and compared to the credit rating industry with its long history and vastly simpler mandate – the probability of contractual debt service “on time and in full.” The paper concludes with an assessment of the future of ESG ratings and their bearing on capital investment and business practice.

Keywords: environmental degradation, social impact, sustainability, corporate governance, corporate ratings, target funds, investment fund performance

JEL Classification: B55, D18, D30, D62, D68, D74, F53, H89, I30, K29, K38, K42, K49, Z128

Suggested Citation:

Walter, Ingo, Sense and Nonsense in ESG Scoring (November 5, 2019). NYU Stern School of Business, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3480878 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3480878
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,660
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,439
RANK
24,869
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies