Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR Reporting Communication: Defective Reporting Models or Misapplication?

Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, Forthcoming. DOI: 10.1002/csr.1858

Posted: 18 Nov 2019

Nicolas Garcia-Torea

University of Burgos

Dra. Belén Fernández-Feijóo Souto

University of Vigo

Marta de la Cuesta

National Distance Education University (UNED)

Date Written: August 7, 2019

Abstract

This paper studies whether the failure of corporate social responsibility (CSR) reporting practices to enable effective CSR communication allowing stakeholders to appreciate firms' CSR is due to the reporting model guiding firms in elaborating sustainability reports, the companies' application of the model, or both. Drawing on the communication theory and using interpretive textual analysis, the paper specifically assesses Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, the most widespread CSR reporting model worldwide, and its application by a leading sustainability reporter. The findings indicate that GRI guidelines suffer from significant limitations that hamper the production of reports accounting for CSR impacts. This paper contributes to critical research on CSR reporting practices and calls for redirecting current reporting practice towards a more effective approach. Additionally, it also responds to the need to approach CSR reporting research relying on theories different from the one commonly used.

Suggested Citation:

Garcia-Torea, Nicolas and Fernández-Feijóo Souto, Dra. Belén and de la Cuesta, Marta, CSR Reporting Communication: Defective Reporting Models or Misapplication? (August 7, 2019). Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, Forthcoming. DOI: 10.1002/csr.1858 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3482536
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
568
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Policies & Processes eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies