Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economic Effects of Special Purpose Entities on Corporate Tax Avoidance

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

69 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2019

Paul Demere

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Michael P. Donohoe

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Petro Lisowsky

Boston University - Questrom School of Business; Norwegian Center for Taxation

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 30, 2019

Abstract

This study provides the first large-sample evidence on the economic tax effects of special purpose entities (SPEs). These increasingly common organizational structures facilitate corporate tax savings by enabling sponsor-firms to increase tax-advantaged activities and/or enhance their tax efficiency (i.e., relative tax savings of a given activity). Using path analysis, we find that SPEs facilitate greater tax avoidance, such that an economically large amount of cash tax savings from research and development (R&D), depreciable assets, net operating loss carryforwards, intangible assets, foreign operations, and tax havens occur in conjunction with SPE use. We estimate that SPEs help generate over $330 billion of incremental cash tax savings, or roughly 6% of total U.S. federal corporate income tax collections during the sample period. Interaction analyses reveal that SPEs enhance the tax efficiency of intangibles and R&D by 61.5% to 87.5%. Overall, these findings provide economic insight into complex organizational structures supporting corporate tax avoidance.

Keywords: organizational structure, special purpose entity, tax avoidance

JEL Classification: H25, L22, M40

Suggested Citation:

Demere, Paul and Donohoe, Michael P. and Lisowsky, Petro, The Economic Effects of Special Purpose Entities on Corporate Tax Avoidance (October 30, 2019). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3483644
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
C Cheng , H Huang , Y Li , J Stanfield
The Effect of Hedge Fund Activism on Corporate Tax Avoidance
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 5 , p. 1493 - 1526 Posted: 2012
Crossref
S Chi , S Huang , J M Sanchez
CEO Inside Debt Incentives and Corporate Tax Sheltering
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 55 , issue 4 , p. 837 - 876 Posted: 2017
Crossref
J Collins , D Shackelford
Global Organizations and Taxes: An Analysis of the Dividend, Interest, Royalty, and Management Fee Payments between U.S. Multinationals' Foreign Affiliates
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 151 - 173 Posted: 1998
Crossref
J Cortina
What is Coefficient Alpha? An Examination of Theory and Applications
Journal of Applied Psychology , volume 78 , issue 1 , p. 98 - 104 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,551
RANK
44,907
9 Citations
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies