Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Learning in Information Technology Investment: The Role of Board Interlocks

Forthcoming, Management Science

56 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2019

Zhuo (June) Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Arun Rai

Georgia State University - J. Mack Robinson College of Business

Feng Tian

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Sean Xu

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Date Written: September 17, 2019

Abstract

We use a social learning perspective to extend our understanding of information technology (IT) investment and return. Specifically, we investigate social learning in the context of interlocks between corporate boards, which allow firms to share knowledge and experiences with respect to their IT investments. Using a large dataset of firm-years from 2001 to 2008, we find (a) a positive relationship exists between a focal firm’s IT investment and that of its interlocked firms; (b) this positive relationship is amplified by the interlocked firms’ IT capability, but only if the focal firm has an active board, which devotes time to allow sufficient communication among directors; and (c) the component of the focal firm’s IT investment that is attributable to board interlock influence is positively related to the firm’s performance, but only if the firm has an active board. Collectively, these findings support our central thesis: social learning through board interlocks can play a significant role in influencing a firm’s IT investments and enhancing their payoff. That said, attaining such benefits requires boards to incorporate those firms with high IT management capability and to strengthen board activity so interlocked members can substantively share their knowledge and experiences with IT investments.

Keywords: IT investment, IT return, social learning, board interlocks

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Zhuo (June) and Rai, Arun and Tian, Feng and Xu, Sean, Social Learning in Information Technology Investment: The Role of Board Interlocks (September 17, 2019). Forthcoming, Management Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3483296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
293
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,566
RANK
237,535
16 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies