Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Stakeholders’ Analysis on Organizational Performance: A Study of Nigerian Financial Organizations

International Journal of Strategic Decision Sciences Volume 10 • Issue 4 • October-December 2019

Posted: 28 Jan 2020

Professor Edwin Agwu

London - United Kingdom

Date Written: October 10, 2019

Abstract

Businesses have grown to the realization that no individual sector can make a significant, sustainable difference alone. Also, several studies have indicated the extensive use of stakeholder analysis within most organizations to improve their businesses. However, this depends on how well organizations can align and fulfill the needs of most if not all stakeholder concerns. This paper is based on a comparative case study of two organizations in the Nigeria financial sector in relation to their stakeholder management practices. The aim is to study the impact of stakeholder analysis on the performance of these selected organizations. The stakeholders of each organization were identified based on their respective mission and vision statements, including their core values and how their stakeholder management practices have impacted on each of their financials and social performances were also examined. The study confirms the importance of stakeholder analysis in the improvement of organization performance and also asserts that the achievement of an organization’s set objectives is dependent on how well the organization can represent the interest of its key stakeholders. It was thus concluded that if an organization can align and fulfill the needs of all its stakeholders successfully, its performance can be improved significantly. It is recommended that management of organizations should not only ensure that their business activities are committed to addressing their stakeholder concerns and needs effectively, but must also be committed to the long-term survival of the organizational goals.

Keywords: Customers, Firms, Nigeria, Performance, Shareholders, Stakeholders

Suggested Citation:

Agwu, Professor Edwin, Impact of Stakeholders’ Analysis on Organizational Performance: A Study of Nigerian Financial Organizations (October 10, 2019). International Journal of Strategic Decision Sciences Volume 10 • Issue 4 • October-December 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3484381
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,877
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies