Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rebuilding a shattered reputation: Discretionary accruals and donations following corporate controversies

56 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2019 Last revised: 4 Aug 2022

Camelia Vasilescu

Huddersfield Business School

Tomasz Piotr Wisniewski

Open University, UK

Date Written: April 10, 2020

Abstract

We examine the consequences of controversies on corporate reputation and identify two reputation-building strategies that companies are adopting to restore their trust relationships with stakeholders in the aftermath of media condemnation. In particular, we find that in the post-controversy period firms take a bolstering strategy of reducing their discretionary accruals and endeavour to engage more actively in philanthropic activities. In terms of regaining reputation, as measured by the increase in the Britain’s Most Admired Companies ranking, reducing reporting aggressiveness is marginally efficacious while charitable giving appears ineffectual. Overall, our findings indicate that a tarnished reputation may be difficult to rebuild.

Keywords: Controversies; Corporate Reputation; Donations; Reporting Aggressiveness

JEL Classification: D22; D64; G32; G41

Suggested Citation:

Vasilescu, Camelia and Wisniewski, Tomasz Piotr, Rebuilding a shattered reputation: Discretionary accruals and donations following corporate controversies (April 10, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3484818 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3484818
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
C R Alexander
On the nature of the reputational penalty for corporate crime
Evidence. The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 42 , issue S1 , p. 489 - 526 Posted: 1999
J Armour , C Mayer , A Polo
Regulatory sanctions and reputational damage in financial markets
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 52 , issue 4 , p. 1429 - 1448 Posted: 2017
J Bae , G T Cameron
Conditioning effect of prior reputation on perception of corporate giving
Public Relations Review , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 144 - 150 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
408
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,948
RANK
164,752
1 Citations
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies