Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance of the Largest Russian Banks

Bank of Finland, BOFIT (Institute for Economies in Transition) Policy Brief 3/2019

29 Pages Posted: 26 Nov 2019

Carsten Sprenger

University of Glasgow; New Economic School (NES)

Srdjan Todorović

National Research University Higher School of Economics (Moscow)

Date Written: November 14, 2019

Abstract

Corporate governance can play an important complementary role in banking regulation by limiting excessive risk-taking by managers and shareholders at the expense of creditors, including small depositors. This paper provides a detailed analysis of corporate governance in Russia’s 30 largest banks during the period from 2007 to 2017. We look at several governance features, including ownership structure, the size, composition, and compensation of the boards of directors, as well as CEO characteristics. Based on our findings, we recommend policymakers focus on strengthening the role of independent directors in non-listed banks, address signs of managerial entrenchment in state-owned banks (long tenure and compensation above the level of private and foreign banks), and improve disclosure about board independence, board committees, and the backgrounds of board members.

Keywords: board of directors, corporate governance, ownership structure, Russian banks

JEL Classification: G21, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Sprenger, Carsten and Todorović, Srdjan, Corporate Governance of the Largest Russian Banks (November 14, 2019). Bank of Finland, BOFIT (Institute for Economies in Transition) Policy Brief 3/2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3486812 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3486812
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
of Finland / Institute for Economies in Transition BOFIT Policy Brief 3 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,282
RANK
580,030
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies