Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Performance of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises: A Catalyst for Entrepreneurship Growth and Sustainability in Nigeria

19 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2019

Musa Tsagem

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ukairo Mabel Ukairo

Federal College of Education Katsina

Buhari Mohammed

Federal College of Education Katsina

Date Written: November 14, 2019

Abstract

This paper reports the outcome of an empirical study on the relationship between corporate governance and firm performance of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises in Nigeria. SMEs are the backbone of developing economies but the sector is found to be underperforming in Nigeria due to poor management and inadequate funding which results in the increase of unemployment and slow economic growth. The study employed a survey research design using balanced panel data. The data was obtained from a sample of 55 Nigerian SMEs in Katsina State for the period 2012-2016. The outcome of the study revealed significant positive association between CEO tenure and family ownership with SMEs’ performance and significant negative association between CEO duality and women on board with SMEs’ performance. This indicates that family-owned SMEs and SMEs with longer-tenure CEOs are associated with increase in firm performance, whereas SMEs with CEO duality and women directors are associated with decrease in firm performance. The findings suggest that SMEs’ owners should infuse a good corporate governance structure for increased performance. The study contributes to the body of knowledge theoretically by providing a factual effect of corporate governance on SMEs’ performance and adds to the existing literature on the relationship between corporate governance and SMEs’ performance. Practically, the study will benefit SMEs’ owners/managers, government, management consultants, and financial institutions in policies and decision making relating to governance of SMEs. However, the study is limited to a few corporate governance mechanisms and a small sample of Nigerian SMEs for a period of five years.

Keywords: Corporate Governance Mechanisms; SMEs Profitability; Economic Growth, Sustainability and Industrial Development; Nigeria

JEL Classification: M

Suggested Citation:

Tsagem, Musa and Ukairo, Ukairo Mabel and Mohammed, Buhari, Corporate Governance and Performance of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises: A Catalyst for Entrepreneurship Growth and Sustainability in Nigeria (November 14, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3487488 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3487488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
958
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,131
RANK
55,514
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies