Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
United Technologies: Are the Parts Worth More than the Whole?

HBS Case No. 220-018

Posted: 30 Dec 2019

Benjamin Esty

Harvard Business School

Daniel Fisher

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Date Written: November 15, 2019

Abstract

After spending more than 50 years creating a diversified industrial conglomerate that Fortune Magazine described as “arguably the most profitable conglomerate in America” in 2014, UTC’s CEO Greg Hayes was under pressure from activist investors (Dan Loeb and Bill Ackman) to break the company into three standalone businesses in the spring of 2018. The activists claimed that a breakup would create at least $20 billion of incremental value (on top of a current market value of approximately $100 billion) and possibly considerably more. Hayes must decide whether a breakup makes sense — will it create significant incremental value and, if so, how much value and why? What factors explained why UTC currently traded at a discount to comparable single segment (pure play) firms? Was it an artifact of the valuation method, a reflection of mismanagement, or something else?

This case has four objectives. First, to illustrate the mechanics and underlying logic of sum-of-the-parts (SOTP) valuation analysis. Second, to practice valuing a division using multiples and wrestling with the concept of comparability. Third, to assess the strategic logic of a diversified industrial conglomerate — does the structure create or destroy value? Is a conglomerate discount (or premium) as measured relative to a set of pure play firms a valid measure of value destruction (or creation)? Illustrate the cross-sectional (across analysts) and time-series (one analyst over time) properties of diversification discounts. And finally, explore the motives, tactics, and economic impact of activist investors. Is activist pressure likely to result in sustained value creation?

Keywords: sum-of-the-parts (SOTP) valuation, activist investor, break-up, multiples, conglomerate discount, diversification discount, capital allocation, corporate strategy, value creation

JEL Classification: G31, G34; L25

Suggested Citation:

Esty, Benjamin C. and Fisher, Daniel, United Technologies: Are the Parts Worth More than the Whole? (November 15, 2019). HBS Case No. 220-018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3488683
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
647
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies