Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The effect of implementation of the Stewardship Code on nonprofessional investors' judgment and decision-making

22 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2019 Last revised: 25 Oct 2023

Haerin Shim

College of Business and Economics, Hanyang Unversity

JeongEun Koo

The University of Seoul - Graduate School of Science in Taxation

Taesup Shim

Graduate School of Science in Taxation, University of Seoul

Date Written: November 17, 2019

Abstract

Since 2010, the Stewardship Code (SC) or similar regulations have been introduced to enhance the quality of institutional investors' engagement and to improve long-term firm value. Although some prior anecdotal or legal studies have expressed skepticism toward the effectiveness of the SC, there has been little empirical evidence regarding the effects of these policies. Accordingly, the purpose of this paper is to investigate how the implementation of the SC affects nonprofessional investors’ judgment and decision-making on an investee firm facing negative issues. Based on the results of a quasi-experiment with Korean nonprofessional investors, we show that the implementation of the SC may negatively impact nonprofessional investors' assessments of the firm, contrary to the intended purpose of SC adoption. This study provides timely implications for the future operation and development of the stewardship policies recently adopted in many countries.

Keywords: Stewardship Code, institutional shareholders, nonprofessional investors, corporate governance, experiment

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Shim, Haerin and Koo, JeongEun and Shim, Taesup, The effect of implementation of the Stewardship Code on nonprofessional investors' judgment and decision-making (November 17, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3488618 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3488618
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
N Aktas , E De Bodt , J Cousin
Do Financial Markets Care About SRI? Evidence from Mergers and Acquisitions
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 35 , issue 7 , p. 1753 - 1761 Posted: 2011
S Alvaro , M Maugeri , G Strampelli
Institutional Investors, Corporate Governance and Stewardship Codes: Problems and Perspectives
CONSOB Legal Research Papers , volume 19 , p. 1 - 78 Posted: 2019
O Arikan
The Effect of Boilerplate Language on Nonprofessional Investors' Judgments
Accounting and Business Research , volume 52 , issue 4 , p. 417 - 442 Posted: 2021
D Arsalidou
Institutional Investors, Behavioural Economics and the Concept of Stewardship
Law and Financial Markets Review , volume 6 , issue 6 , p. 410 - 421 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
878
RANK
549,043
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies