Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Connectedness and the Cost of Equity Capital

53 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2019

Min Suk Lee

Chulalongkorn University - Chulalongkorn Business School

Angie Low

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Siew Hong Teoh

UCLA Anderson School of Management

Date Written: November 17, 2019

Abstract

A larger CEO network can reduce the cost of equity by reducing information asymmetry between the firm and outsiders, and by increasing trust between the firm and stakeholders. Alternatively, a larger CEO network can increase the cost of equity because higher CEO connectedness encourages greater agency problems and more risk-taking by reducing the costs borne by the CEO from a termination. We find a positive relation between a CEO’s connectedness and the firm’s cost of equity, suggesting that, on average, the costs of CEO connectedness outweigh the benefits. The positive relation between a CEO’s connections and the firm’s cost of equity is attenuated for firms with high information asymmetry. This additional cross-sectional result is consistent with the higher benefits of improved information flow from connectedness in firms with high information asymmetry that can help mitigate some of the adverse effects of agency costs and risk-taking. We use multiple methods to address endogeneity and reverse causality problems, and our results remain generally robust.

Keywords: Social capital, social networks, cost of equity, implied cost of capital

JEL Classification: G30, M41, Z13

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Min Suk and Low, Angie and Teoh, Siew Hong, CEO Connectedness and the Cost of Equity Capital (November 17, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3488660 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3488660
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
419
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,167
RANK
160,264
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies