Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Ownership Structure, Sub-Optimal Cash Holdings and Investment Inefficiency on Dividend Policy: Evidence From Indonesia

Moin, A., Guney, Y. and El Kalak, I., the Effects of Ownership Structure, Sub-Optimal Cash Holdings and Investment Inefficiency on Dividend Policy: Evidence From Indonesia, Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2019

Abdul Moin

Universitas Islam Indonesia, Faculty of Economics, Students

Yilmaz Guney

Coventry University

Izidin El Kalak

Alfaisal University

Date Written: November 16, 2019

Abstract

We investigate how a firm’s decision to hold excessive cash or to over-invest could influence its dividend payout policy in Indonesia. Additionally, we examine the association between corporate ownership structure and cash dividends. Using a data set of Indonesian listed firms for the period from 1995 to 2014, we find that excessive cash holding (over-investment) positively (negatively) affects a firm’s likelihood of paying dividends. Also, we find that family, foreign, state and institutional ownership have significantly negative links with dividends, which suggests the signals of expropriation of firms’ wealth by major shareholders. These findings strongly support the expropriation hypothesis that commonly applies to firms with higher level of concentration or to firms in a weak legal environment by which the rights of minority interests are put at risk by large shareholders.

Keywords: Dividend Policy, Over-cash, Over-investment, Corporate Governance, Ownership Structure, Indonesia

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G35

Suggested Citation:

Moin, Abdul and Guney, Yilmaz and El Kalak, Izidin, The Effects of Ownership Structure, Sub-Optimal Cash Holdings and Investment Inefficiency on Dividend Policy: Evidence From Indonesia (November 16, 2019). Moin, A., Guney, Y. and El Kalak, I., the Effects of Ownership Structure, Sub-Optimal Cash Holdings and Investment Inefficiency on Dividend Policy: Evidence From Indonesia, Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3488453 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3488453
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
982
RANK
538,134
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies