Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managers' Voluntary Disclosure Decisions and Business Press Attention

58 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2019 Last revised: 13 Aug 2023

Jake Krupa

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Date Written: August 11, 2023

Abstract

I investigate the relation between business press attention and the incidence and properties of managers' voluntary disclosures. Specifically, I examine managers' disclosure responses to a bad news event: material lawsuits against the firm. I posit that managers' disclosure decisions are affected by press attention of this event, since press attention draws additional stakeholders' attention and increases information demand. Examining managers' voluntary Form 8-K Item 8.01 filings, I find that both anticipated and actual press coverage of the lawsuit event are positively associated with the likelihood and timeliness of these filings. Moreover, I find that press attention is associated with several textual characteristics of the filings, including length, tone, and complexity. This study extends a growing literature on the monitoring role of the press and suggests that managers' disclosures of bad news respond to anticipated and actual press scrutiny.

Keywords: Business press, Form 8-K, Litigation, Voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: D83, G14, K22, L82, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Krupa, Jake, Managers' Voluntary Disclosure Decisions and Business Press Attention (August 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3489326 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3489326
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,804
RANK
249,893
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies