Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Overconfident CEO vs A Rational Board: The Tale About Bank Risk-Taking

Higher School of Economics Research Paper No. WP BRP 78/FE/2019

32 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2019 Last revised: 24 Nov 2019

Anastasia Stepanova

HSE University

Anastasia Suraeva

National Research University Higher School of Economics (Moscow)

Date Written: November 19, 2019

Abstract

Bank risk-taking behavior is of significant interest for researches and policy makers because financial failures due to excessive risk in this sector can have severe consequences for the bank’s numerous stakeholders and for the macroeconomic system overall. A growing literature investigates the main factors contributing to “well above average” risk. In particular, this study explains risk strategies in firms taking into account the bounded rationality of corporate governance agents. On a panel dataset of 110 listed US banks in the period of 2011-2016 empirical evidence is provided that excessive risk-taking in banks arises from the cognitive bias of the overconfidence of CEO decision-making. The study also presents how the impact of an overconfident CEO on risk-taking is affected considering the interaction of CEO overconfidence with the board of directors. It was revealed that the CEO's positive influence on risk is moderated if the board is an effective monitoring mechanism with the presence of independent directors who are experts in the financial sphere.

Keywords: bank risk-taking, CEO overconfidence, board of directors, behavioral finance, behavioral biases

JEL Classification: G21, G39

Suggested Citation:

Stepanova, Anastasia N. and Suraeva, Anastasia, An Overconfident CEO vs A Rational Board: The Tale About Bank Risk-Taking (November 19, 2019). Higher School of Economics Research Paper No. WP BRP 78/FE/2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3489783 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3489783
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Eva Mariann Kiss
Unpacking the micro-foundations of dynamic capabilities in retail banking: the roles of strategic alignment, leadership, and organisational structure
International Journal of Organizational Analysis Posted: 2025
Crossref
Mandana Taheri , Peyman SHojashafiee
The Impact of Bank Managers' Overconfidence on Banking Stability: The Role of Supervisory Capital Regulations and Capital Adequacy in Iran
quarterly journal of fiscal and Economic policies , volume 12 , issue 47 , p. 127 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,275
RANK
345,746
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies