Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bankers on the Board and CEO Turnover

52 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2019 Last revised: 24 Dec 2019

Jen Chang

SKKU Business School

Min Jung Kang

University of Michigan at Flint - School of Management

Y. Han (Andy) Kim

Sungkyunkwan University

Date Written: November 19, 2019

Abstract

Governance literature finds that the independent directors from the lending banks (CBDs) bring both financial expertise and conflict of interest between shareholders and debtholder. We examine how the presence of CBDs affects the implicit incentive of CEO turnover. Using BoardEx and DealScan data, we hypothesize and find that CBDs make the CEO turnover more sensitive to both performance and risk. Post CEO turnover analysis reveals that firm performance improves and risk decreases in the presence of CBDs.

Keywords: CEO turnover, banker directors, board of directors, commercial bankers, corporate governance, implicit incentive

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Jeung-Yoon (Jen) and Kang, Min Jung and Kim, Y. Han (Andy), Bankers on the Board and CEO Turnover (November 19, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3489578 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3489578
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,106
RANK
552,669
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies