Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management in Companies Seeking to be Acquired and its Effect on Chances of Subsequent Acquisition

33 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2019

Tatiana King

University of Vaasa; Vaasan yliopisto (University of Vaasa)

Yulia Nikolaeva

Saint Petersburg State University - Graduate School of Management

Date Written: January 05, 2016

Abstract

Earnings management is found to be widely used by managers to alter financial reporting, whereas managers of seeking buyer firms might have particularly strong incentives to do so. The goal of the current research is to analyze the influence of accrual-based earnings management strategies and other factors on ex ante chances of subsequent acquisition of a target company that publicly announces that it is in search for a buyer. In the paper the sample of seeking buyer firms that issued respective announcements in 2010 through 2012 is studied, and by means of binary logistic and regressions the factors of a successful sale are defined.

The authors find that acquirers are eager to bid for companies which are profitable and in a good financial state, but only when the latter reflect firm fundamentals, and is not achieved via accrual manipulation.

Keywords: Earnings management, accrual management, target companies, seeking buyer, mergers and acquisitions

Suggested Citation:

King, Tatiana and King, Tatiana and Nikolaeva, Yulia, Earnings Management in Companies Seeking to be Acquired and its Effect on Chances of Subsequent Acquisition (January 05, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3490565 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3490565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
811
RANK
467,197
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies