Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Responses to Grand Challenges: Why and How Corporations Build Community Resilience

Ralph Hamann, Lulamile Makaula, Gina Ziervogel, Cliford Shearing & Alan Zhang, 'Strategic Responses to Grand Challenges: Why and How Corporations Build Community Resilience' Journal of Business Ethics, 2019

19 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2019

Ralph Hamann

University of Cape Town (UCT)

Lulamile Makaula

University of Cape Town (UCT)

Gina Ziervogel

University of Cape Town (UCT)

Clifford Shearing

University of Cape Town; University of Montreal, School of Criminology; University of New South Wales; University of Toronto

Alan Zhang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

We explore why and how corporations seek to build community resilience as a strategic response to grand challenges. Based on a comparative case study analysis of four corporations strategically building community resilience in five place-based communities in South Africa, as well as three counterfactual cases, we develop a process model of corporate practices and contingent factors that explain why and how some corporations commit to community resilience building and whether they try to do so directly or indirectly. We thus help explain corporations’ strategic contributions to community resilience, and we emphasize the role of place-specific resources, social-ecological system viability, and limited statehood in motivating such organisational responses to grand challenges.

Keywords: Community Resilience, Grand Challenges, Corporate Strategy, Social-Ecological Systems, Africa

Suggested Citation:

Hamann, Ralph and Makaula, Lulamile and Ziervogel, Gina and Shearing, Clifford D and Zhang, Alan, Strategic Responses to Grand Challenges: Why and How Corporations Build Community Resilience (2018). Ralph Hamann, Lulamile Makaula, Gina Ziervogel, Cliford Shearing & Alan Zhang, 'Strategic Responses to Grand Challenges: Why and How Corporations Build Community Resilience' Journal of Business Ethics, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3490056
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
Gold
221, 223) and engaging with "communities as complex systems Posted: 2018
H Aguinis , A Glavas
What we know and don't know about corporate social responsibility: A review and research agenda
Journal of Management , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 932 - 968 Posted: 2012
Crossref
K Amaeshi , E Adegbite , T Rajwani
Corporate social responsibility in challenging and non-enabling institutional contexts: Do institutional voids matter
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 134 , issue 1 , p. 135 - 153 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J M Amis
Inequality, institutions and organizations
Organization Studies , volume 39 , issue 9 , p. 1131 - 1152 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,018
RANK
692,403
5 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Consumer Social Responsibility eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies