Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corruption Culture and Accounting Quality

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2019

Yunsen Chen

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE)

Limei Che

BI Norwegian Business School

Dengjin Zheng

Central University of Finance and Economics

Hong You

Southwest University - College of Economics and Management

Date Written: September 2019

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of corruption culture on accounting quality (AQ) of listed firms at the municipal level in China. We consider municipalities with (without) corrupt top government officials as having high (low) corruption culture. To isolate the effect of corruption culture, we use the arrest of corrupt officials (the events) to capture the change in local corruption culture, and apply the difference-in-difference method to compare AQ of firms operating in the jurisdictions of corrupt officials pre and post the events, compared to control firms. We find that AQ of firms affiliated with corrupt officials is higher after the events, which is robust to the placebo test, time-trend analysis, and various robustness tests. We complement the literature by showing that the increase in AQ is greater for firms associated with more powerful officials and having stronger connections with corrupt officials. Moreover, the positive effect on accounting quality is stronger in the post-2012 period. Further, we document that firms improving AQ after the events issue more SEOs and have lower cost of capital. Finally, analyses on channels firms used to improve AQ show that firms switch to higher quality auditors, have better internal control, and issue more management forecasts. This study has implications for policymakers in countries that suffer from corruption.

Keywords: Corruption Culture; Accounting Quality; Local Government Officials

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yunsen and Che, Limei and Zheng, Dengjin and You, Hong, Corruption Culture and Accounting Quality (September 2019). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3490343 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3490343
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
Andrew Ang , Jennie Bai , Hao Zhou
The Great Wall of Debt: Real Estate, Political Risk, and Chinese Local Government Financing Cost
Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 2603022, PBCSF-NIFR Research Paper No. 15-02 Pages: 48 Posted: 7 May 2015 Last revised: 29 Jul 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Ball , A Robin , J Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
J. Account. Econ , volume 36 , issue 1-3 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B H Bao , D H Bao
Income smoothing, earnings quality and firm valuation
J. Bus. Fin. Account , volume 31 , issue 9 , p. 1525 - 1557 Posted: 2004
Crossref
P Bardhan
Corruption and development: a review of issues
J. Econ. Lit , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 1320 - 1346 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,693
RANK
314,223
6 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies