Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Machine + Man: A Field Experiment on the Role of Discretion in Augmenting AI-Based Lending Models

66 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2019

Anna M. Costello

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Andrea K. Down

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Mihir N. Mehta

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: October 2019

Abstract

Does human discretion improve or diminish lending outcomes? We assess this question in the context of a randomized, controlled experiment using a large group of lenders that rely on machine-generated credit scoring models provided by a third party to make monthly credit decisions. Working with the credit scoring company, we design a new feature for their platform – the slider feature – which allows lenders to incorporate their discretion into the credit score. We randomly assign half of the lenders to the treatment group that gets the slider; the control group does not get the slider feature and thus makes credit decisions based primarily on the machine-generated model. Consistent with discretion aiding in loan decisions, we find that the treatment group’s credit model adjustments are predictive of forward looking portfolio performance. However, we find that discretion is not useful in all cases. In fact, the control group does just as well as the treatment group in predicting credit risk for borrowers that have been traditionally classified as opaque. Our study highlights the growing prominence of AI-based lending models in crowding out some of the human’s role.

Keywords: Relationship Lending, Discretion, Machine-Learning, Fintech

JEL Classification: G2, G21, G32, O33

Suggested Citation:

Costello, Anna M. and Down, Andrea K. and Mehta, Mihir N., Machine + Man: A Field Experiment on the Role of Discretion in Augmenting AI-Based Lending Models (October 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3490370 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3490370
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
387
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,048
RANK
175,011
41 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies