Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Competitiveness: An Examination of the Role of Corporate Governance in Defining Cost of Capital

31 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2019

Sajit Jacob

Bharathiar University, Department of Commerce

Date Written: November 22, 2019

Abstract

This paper discusses the influence of Corporate Governance (CG) on Cost of Capital (CoC). The study revolves on the hypothesis that optimum capital structure at minimum cost is also an agenda item of CG. Thus this study explores the influence of CG on overall cost of capital as well as at its components level. The main goal is to prove that with improvement in CG performance, leads to reduction in information asymmetry among principal and agents, enabling agency cost to decline resulting in resetting guidance for required returns for equity and debt to a lower level. Main attention was paid to nature of correlation and OLS based econometric modelling of WACC to identify the lead indicators CG should influence to create an impact. This topic was chosen on the assumption that CG has a role to play in enabling financial competitiveness for the firm to fuel its ambitious growth path. The major findings of the paper are, there exist no statistically significant differences existing among the means for CoC among the CG categories, and with rise in CG, and required return on equity and required return on debt are declining by the direction of correlation. However, in CGPI category 1, study finds required return on debt rising as a possible outcome of corporate strategies in those companies. The above findings suggest that the implications on the CoC on the whole is an outcome of the strategy implementation which is a byproduct of CG performance. Overall, study concludes that there is a reduction in CoC with rise in CG performance.

Keywords: Corporate Governance Performance Index, Weighted Average Cost of Capital, Capital Asset Pricing Model, Required Returns

JEL Classification: G12, G32, G34, D24

Suggested Citation:

Jacob, Sajit, Firm Competitiveness: An Examination of the Role of Corporate Governance in Defining Cost of Capital (November 22, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3491545 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3491545
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Asset pricing and bid-ask spread
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 249 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Ronald C Anderson , Mansi , Sattar , David M Reeb , Board
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Ashbaugh-Skaife
Corporate Governance and the Cost of Equity Capital , p. 1 - 54 Posted: 2006
S Baiman , R Verrecchia
The relation among capital asset markets, financial disclosure, production efficiency, and insider trading
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
964
RANK
469,965
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies