Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Corporate Governance Performance Based on Disclosures in Published Reports: Evidence from India

30 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2019

Sajit Jacob

Bharathiar University, Department of Commerce

Date Written: November 22, 2019

Abstract

This paper investigates the state of Corporate Governance (CG) performance in India. The main goal is to ascertain the determinants of CG through content analysis. As part of this investigation, statistical significance of categories based on CG performance index (CGPI), possibility of selective improvement of themes and analysis for ascertaining scoping and focusing of limited attributes within a theme for improvement. While at a macro level categories used mean with standard deviation rules, but at micro level homogenous clusters were identified with k mean cluster analysis within a category to enable deeper profiling. For scoping of attributes; factor analysis with Principal Component Analysis and Varimax rotation is employed. Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) regression and Ordinal Logistic Regression (OLR) are utilized in this study for econometric modeling. This study help rate the progress of reforms, plan further reforms and enable investors to choose the right firms. Major findings of the paper are; there exists statistically significant differences among categories and across theme indices. High adjusted R square linear regressions and subsequent sensitivity analysis short listed critical attributes to focus. The above findings suggest high predictive ability of OLR-OLS system of equations highlighting the possibility of focusing on limited attributes within a theme, but need for holistic approach on CG with all themes as a requirement are the inferences.

Keywords: Corporate Governance Performance Index, Themes, Attributes

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Jacob, Sajit, Determinants of Corporate Governance Performance Based on Disclosures in Published Reports: Evidence from India (November 22, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3491549 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3491549
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
M Allegrini , G Greco
Corporate boards, audit committees and voluntary disclosure: Evidence from Italian listed companies
Journal of Management and Governance , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 187 - 216 Posted: 2013
Crossref
N Ananchotikul
Does foreign direct investment really improve corporate governance? Evidence from Thailand Posted: 2008
H Y Baek , D Johnson , J Kim
Managerial Ownership, Corporate Governance and Voluntary Disclosure
Journal of Business & Economic Studies , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 44 - 61 Posted: 2009
V Beattie , S Thomas
Lifting the lid on the use of content analysis to investigate intellectual capital disclosures
Discussion Paper Series in Accounting & Finance Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Rishi Kapoor Ronoowah , Boopen Seetanah
Determinants of corporate governance disclosure: evidence from an emerging market
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 135 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
700
RANK
833,930
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies