Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Stock Market Liquidity

32 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2019

Erick Rading Outa

Charles Darwin University

Nelson Waweru

York University - School of Administrative Studies

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: November 22, 2019

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to examine the capital market effects of corporate governance (CG) practices of “comply or explain” on stock market liquidity in a frontier market.

Using secondary data from Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) liquidity position is analyzed using panel data random effects regression against CG guidelines.

The results show a negative and significant relationship between CG compliance and stock market liquidity suggesting that regulated CG practices improves market liquidity in Kenya. The results are remarkably robust to different measures of liquidity and supports agency and signaling theory.

We provide evidence that security regulation improves stock market liquidity in a frontier market whose characteristics are thought not to favor regulation. Therefore the regulators and stakeholders could be motivated by the benefits of regulation and this could lead to renewed effort to improve the current compliance from the current 61.4%, to higher levels.

Our finding shows that security market regulation through CG guidelines can improve stock market liquidity in frontier markets. This offers regulators and policy makers a strong motivation to enhance security regulation to strengthen capital market confidence.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Corporate Governance Practices, Security Market Regulation, Stock Market Liquidity, Kenya

JEL Classification: G10, G18, G38, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Outa, Erick Rading and Waweru, Nelson Maina and Ozili, Peterson K, Corporate Governance and Stock Market Liquidity (November 22, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3491537 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3491537
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,416
RANK
588,270
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies