Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Corporate Performance: Does Former Explains Latter in Corporate India?

24 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2019

Sajit Jacob

Bharathiar University, Department of Commerce

Date Written: November 22, 2019

Abstract

This paper discusses the effects of Corporate Governance (CG) on corporate performance. This study investigates the nature and intensity of influence CG exercises on the firm performance. The main goal is to prove that CG is a determinant for firm performance. Main attention was paid to ANOVA based inferential statistics, coefficient of correlation and Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) based regression analysis to investigate the objective. This topic was chosen to examine whether the positive correlations between CG and firm performance in western studies are applicable in Indian context. OLS based econometric modelling identifies Equity Multiplier Ratio (EMR) and Times Interest Earned (TIE) as leading indicators of Economic Value Added (EVA) that needs CG attention. The major findings of the paper are, there are no statistically significant differences among the means of EVA on comparing across CGPI categories. However, there exist a positive correlations in all CGPI categories with EVA. The above findings suggest that by a financial value chain, CGPI activism on the leading indicators of EVA will culminate in the improvement of EVA itself.

Keywords: Corporate Governance Performance Index, Firm Performance, Economic Value Added

JEL Classification: G34, G30

Suggested Citation:

Jacob, Sajit, Corporate Governance and Corporate Performance: Does Former Explains Latter in Corporate India? (November 22, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3491548 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3491548
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
R Barratt , N Korac
Developing reflexive corporate leadership
Corporate governance research journal , volume 2 , p. 32 - 36 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D N Barron , E West , M T Hannan
A time to growth and a time to die: Growth and mortality of credit unions in New York, 1914-1990
American Journal of Sociology , volume 100 , issue 2 , p. 381 - 421 Posted: 1994
Crossref
C T Bathala , R P Rao
The Determinants of Board Composition: An Agency Theory Perspective
Managerial and Decision Economics , volume 16 , p. 59 - 69 Posted: 1995
Crossref
L W Bell
Theory in Action: Economic Profit: An Old Concept Gains New Significance
Journal of Business Strategy , volume 19 , issue 5 , p. 13 - 15 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
721
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies