Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Diversity and Manipulative Accounting Practice among Listed Conglomerates in Nigeria

Tukur, I. M., Dogarawa, A. B. & Yero, J. I., Board Diversity and Manipulative Accounting Practice among Listed Conglomerates in Nigeria. Nigerian Journal of Accounting Research, A Publication of Department of Accounting, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, 11(1), 55-88, 2015

33 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2019

Ishaka Mohammed Tukur

Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) - Department Of Accounting

Ahmad Bello Dogarawa

Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) - Department of Accounting

Jibril Ibrahim Yero

Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) - Department Of Accounting

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

One of the main characteristics of an effective Board of Directors (BOD) is its membership diversity. Well-managed diversity on the BOD is expected to enhance a board’s capacity and effectiveness to monitor the opportunistic behaviour of managers, which more often than not motivates them to among other things engage in manipulative accounting practice. This paper examines the effect of board diversity on manipulative accounting practice among listed conglomerates in Nigeria for the period 2007 – 2014. The paper hypothesises that foreign directors, board gender, non-executive directors and board competence have no significant effect on manipulative accounting practice among the firms. It utilises panel data extracted from the financial statements of the six (6) conglomerates listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) as at December 2014. The result of the robust fixed effects model reveals that foreign directors and non-executive directors have significant negative influence on manipulative accounting of the firms. The analysis further shows that board gender and board competence have no significant effect on manipulative accounting practice among the firms. This implies that an increase in the number of foreign directors and non-executive directors will reduce the opportunistic tendencies of management as their presence plays a crucial role in reducing manipulative accounting activities of the firms. In line with the result, the paper recommends that management of listed conglomerates in Nigeria should increase the number of foreign and non-executive director to average of 44% and 47% respectively. This is because at these respective percentages, foreign and non-executive directors have significant negative effect on manipulative accounting. Also, shareholders of listed conglomerates in Nigeria need not to bother about the number of females and competent directors on their board whenever they are to decide on how to curtail manipulative accounting practice.

Keywords: Board Diversity; Conglomerates; Corporate Governance; Earnings Management; Manipulative Accounting

Suggested Citation:

Tukur, Ishaka Mohammed and Dogarawa, Ahmad Bello and Yero, Jibril Ibrahim, Board Diversity and Manipulative Accounting Practice among Listed Conglomerates in Nigeria (2015). Tukur, I. M., Dogarawa, A. B. & Yero, J. I., Board Diversity and Manipulative Accounting Practice among Listed Conglomerates in Nigeria. Nigerian Journal of Accounting Research, A Publication of Department of Accounting, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, 11(1), 55-88, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3492051 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3492051
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
115 References
Abdul Rauf , F , H Johari , N , H Sharifar , B Abd Rahman , N , R
The Impact of Company and Board Characteristics on Earning Management among
Global Review of Accounting and Finance , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 114 - 127 Posted: 2012
S Abdulahi , N Isma&apos;il , K , K
Do Women Directors Constraint Accruals Management? Malaysian Evidence. Department of Accounting Posted: 2009
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate Governance and Accounting Scandals
Journal of Law Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Firm Performance and Mechanism to Control Agency Problems between Managers and Shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
763
RANK
791,953
115 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies