Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Key Talent Outflow and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from the Rejection of the Inevitable Disclosure Doctrine

48 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2019 Last revised: 10 Apr 2021

Xin Liu

University of Macau - Faculty of Business Administration

Xiaoran Ni

Xiamen University - School of Economics; Xiamen University - Wang Yanan Institute for Studies in Economics (WISE)

Date Written: April 10, 2021

Abstract

We document that an increased likelihood of losing important stakeholders like key talents can lead to a higher stock price crash risk. Our test exploits U.S. state courts’ staggered rejections of the inevitable disclosure doctrine (IDD), which improves the ability of key talent to switch jobs. Relative to unaffected firms, we find that firms experience a significantly increased stock price crash risk after the states where they are headquartered reject the IDD. This effect is stronger for firms that face more industry competition and rely more heavily on key talents. Additional evidence shows that rejection of the IDD dampens firms’ competitive advantages to some extent. Overall, consistent with the view that a loss of key personnel can be an additional risk factor, our results suggest that an increased likelihood of key talent outflow can lead to bad news formation, which in turn results in stock price crashes.

Keywords: key talent outflow, crash risk, inevitable disclosure doctrine, labor mobility, stakeholder

JEL Classification: G32, G34, J01

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Xin and Ni, Xiaoran, Key Talent Outflow and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from the Rejection of the Inevitable Disclosure Doctrine (April 10, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3492463 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3492463
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
V V Acharya , R P Baghai , K V Subramanian
Wrongful discharge laws and innovation
Review of Financial Studies , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 301 - 346 Posted: 2014
A K Agrawal , D A Matsa
Labor unemployment risk and corporate financing decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 2 , p. 449 - 470 Posted: 2013
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
H An , T Zhang
Stock price synchronicity, crash risk, and institutional investors
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 21 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
432
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,300
RANK
154,352
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies