Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Chilling Effects of Patent Trolls

53 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2019 Last revised: 24 Aug 2021

Feng Chen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Yu Hou

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Jiaping Qiu

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics; McMaster University - Michael G. DeGroote School of Business

Gordon Richardson

University of Toronto

Date Written: August 23, 2021

Abstract

We find that, when a firm is sued by non-practicing entities (NPEs), the likelihood of its technology peers being sued increases in the subsequent year. Defendants’ technology peers experience significant market value losses around the lawsuit filing date. Moreover, defendants’ technology peers respond to NPE litigation risk by increasing R&D investments to develop workaround technologies. However, the increase in R&D incrementally generates fewer patent citations or patents with lower values. Thus, our results highlight broader wealth effects and corresponding real effects of NPE-initiated litigation on defendants’ technology peers. These results provide sharp contrasts to the insignificant wealth and real impacts on defendants’ technology peers if litigations are initiated by practicing entities (PEs). The new evidence informs the current regulatory and policy debates pertaining to NPEs.

Keywords: Peer losses; Innovation response; Patent-infringement litigation; Non-practicing entities; Technology peers

JEL Classification: G14; O34; O32; M41; K11

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Feng and Hou, Yu and Qiu, Jiaping and Richardson, Gordon, Chilling Effects of Patent Trolls (August 23, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3492471 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3492471
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
D S Abrams , U Akcigit , J Popadak
Patent value and citations: Creative destruction or strategic disruption?
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 2013
P Almeida , B Kogut
Localization of knowledge and the mobility of engineers in regional networks
Management Science , volume 45 , issue 7 , p. 905 - 917 Posted: 1999
American Intellectual Property Law Association Posted: 2013
I Appel , J Farre-Mensa , E Simintzi
Patent trolls and startup employment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , issue 3 , p. 708 - 725 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
387
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,524
RANK
175,011
6 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies