Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Communication and Earnings Management

18 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2019

Zhen QI

University of Houston; Guangzhou University - School of Economics and Statistics

Yixiao Zhou

Australian National University (ANU) - Crawford School of Public Policy

Jian Chen

Guangzhou University

Date Written: November 25, 2019

Abstract

This study conducts the first analysis of the influence of private communication on earnings management. Results show that private communication can curb earnings management; the constraining effect of private communication on earnings management is greater when the number of external participants, especially institutional investors, is larger. Further, the greater the depth and breadth of communication, the more earnings management is reduced. Our findings provide significant implications for investors and regulators that seek to curb earnings management.

Keywords: private communication; earnings management; communication depth; communication breadth; external participants

JEL Classification: G14; G18; G34; G38

Suggested Citation:

QI, Zhen and Zhou, Yixiao and Chen, Jian, Private Communication and Earnings Management (November 25, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3493131 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3493131
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
R M Bowen , S Dutta , S Tang , P Zhu
Inside the "black box" of private inhouse meetings
Rev. Account. Stud , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 487 - 527 Posted: 2018
Crossref
B Bushee , J Gerakos , L F Lee
Corporate jets and private meetings with investors
J. Account. and Econ , volume 65 , issue 2-3 , p. 358 - 379 Posted: 2018
Crossref
C C S Chen , Y Wei , P
Country factors in earnings management of ADR firms
Fin. Res. Lett Posted: 2019
Crossref
J Chen , Y Zhou , Z Qi
Content and characteristics of private in-house meetings
J. Behav. Finance Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,101
RANK
627,127
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies