Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance, Impact of Company’s Performance and Risk of Mitsubishi Electric Corporation

36 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2020

Yi Ying Aw

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: November 9, 2019

Abstract

Corporate governance is a significant part in a company. It is essential for a company to manage the business and affairs of company. The study attempts to determine corporate governance, the impact of company performance and risk of Mitsubishi Electric Corporation. The study also attempts to determine impact of internal factors and external factors influencing company’s performance. This review is to evaluate the value of profitability and operating margin. This research involved relationship between corporate governance, company’s performance, and risk of Mitsubishi Electric Corporation within five years which is from 2014 to 2018. This companies were from electronic industry and data was collected from Mitsubishi Electric Corporation’s annual report. This ratios calculated were the return on assets (ROA), quick ratio, current ratio, average-collection period, debt to income, operational ratio, operating margin, and external factors (gross domestic product (GDP), inflation rate, interest rate and exchange rate). Conclusion based on profitability and operating margin of company. This study advice that company should be manage own business effectively and more compliance with principles of corporate governance.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Company’s Performance, Profitability, Operating Margin

JEL Classification: G3, G32

Suggested Citation:

Aw, Yi Ying, Corporate Governance, Impact of Company’s Performance and Risk of Mitsubishi Electric Corporation (November 9, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3494842 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3494842
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Alicia Tuovila
Sampling Technique. Investopedia (accessed Sept 30th Posted: 2019
I I Basel , Risk Management
Credit Risk Measurement and Management in Trading Posted: 2019
J Chen
Corporate Governance Definition. Investopedia (accessed April 18th Posted: 2019
J H Christensen , M M Spiegel
Negative Interest Rates and Inflation Expectations in Japan
FRBSF Economic Letter Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,013
RANK
392,891
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies