Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Determinant of Liquidity Risk in VF Corporation

30 Pages Posted: 30 Dec 2020

Sarah Ahmad Saufi

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: November 14, 2019

Abstract

This study aims to determine the relationship between dependent variable, quick ratio and other internal and external variables in VF Corporation in United States over five years. For the purpose of analysis, the selected data from 2014 until 2018 of VF Corporation is applied as the sample of data. The examination is being carried out in determine the effect of different variables such as return on assets (ROA), average collection period, debt to income, operational ratio, operating margin, corporate governance index, gross domestic product (GDP), inflation, interest rate, exchange rate and market risk. The finding reveals that the liquidity of the company can be influenced by the operational risk. The study shows average collection period have significant negative effect on firm’s liquidity.

Keywords: liquidity performance, operational risk, and average collection period

JEL Classification: G3,G32

Suggested Citation:

Ahmad Saufi, Sarah, The Determinant of Liquidity Risk in VF Corporation (November 14, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3494801 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3494801
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Ahmed Arif , A N
Liquidity risk and performance of banking system
Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance Posted: 2012
Crossref
Ahmed Mohamed Dahir , F B
Funding liquidity risk and bank risk-taking in BRICS countries: An application of system GMM approach
International Journal of Emerging Markets , p. 237 - 240 Posted: 2018
Ali Fatemi , I F
Credit risk management: a survey of practices. Managerial Finance , p. 228 - 229 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Armstrong , A Baron
Performance management: the new realities. Institute of Personnel and Development , p. 110 - 114 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
423
RANK
778,745
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies