Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Analysis on Risk Exposure and Performance of AIA Bhd.

25 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2021

Anusha Annathurai

Universiti Malaysia Pahang - Faculty of Industrial Management

Date Written: November 21, 2019

Abstract

Analysis on corporate governance principles of AIA Bhd. is studied in this article along with their risk exposure and performance as per the concern of the research objective. The performance of the company is indicated by Return on Asset which act as the dependent variable of this study. Whereas, the risk exposure is indicated by internal and external factors of independent variables. Internal factors cover Liquidity Risk in terms of current ratio and quick ratio; Credit Risk in terms of average collection period and debt to income ratio; and Operational Risk in terms of operational ratio and operating margin. Meanwhile, external factor covers Market Risk in terms of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) rate, Inflation Rate, Interest Rate and Exchange Rate. The analysis of this study shows that the influence of these independent variables is significant towards the dependent variable. The analysis concluded that the most significant variable is Operating Margin.

Keywords: AIA Bhd., Corporate Governance, Performance, Risk, Insurance, Return on Asset, Liquidity Risk, Credit Risk, Operational Risk, Market Risk, Current Ratio, Quick Ratio, Average Collection Period, Debt to Income Ratio, Operational Risk, Operating Margin, Gross Domestic Product (GDP), Inflation Rate

JEL Classification: G3, G32

Suggested Citation:

Annathurai, Anusha, Corporate Governance Analysis on Risk Exposure and Performance of AIA Bhd. (November 21, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3494806 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3494806
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
A Shleifer , R W Vishny
Posted: 1996-04
Crossref
S J Joo , D Nixon , P A Stoeberl
Benchmarking with data envelopment analysis: a return on asset perspective
Benchmarking: An International Journal , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 529 - 542 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R A Spooner , P D Watson , C J Marsden , D C Smith , K A Moore , J P Cook , . . Roberts , L M
Protein disulphide-isomerase reduces ricin to its A and B chains in the endoplasmic reticulum
Biochemical Journal , volume 383 , issue 2 , p. 285 - 293 Posted: 2004
Crossref
E I Altman , A Saunders
Credit risk measurement: Developments over the last 20 years
Journal of banking & finance , volume 21 , p. 1721 - 1742 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
690
RANK
369,949
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies