Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility in Controversial Industries or How to Fail Spectacularly

Chinese Business Review, Mar. 2019, Vol. 18, No. 3, 19-24

6 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2019

Davit Belkania

University of Kaposvár

Date Written: March 29, 2019

Abstract

The present study is a critical appraisal of corporate social responsibility (CSR) and the certain type of industry players who manage to conceal their detrimental core businesses behind CSR façade. Accordingly, the paper explores existing controversies between theoretical understanding and practical implementation of CSR, as well as the failure of the legal framework concerning CSR reporting. The paper suggests the following as a remedy for the existing problems: denotational refinement of CSR from versatile to explicit, inclusion of constructive criticism through NGOs, the inception of common framework vis-à-vis CSR reporting, and ranking/monitoring of companies by third-party organizations.

Keywords: CSR, controversial industries, CSR reporting

JEL Classification: M14

Suggested Citation:

Belkania, Davit, Corporate Social Responsibility in Controversial Industries or How to Fail Spectacularly (March 29, 2019). Chinese Business Review, Mar. 2019, Vol. 18, No. 3, 19-24, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3495571
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
R Alsop
Perils of corporate philanthropy: Touting good works offends the public, but reticence is perceived as inaction
The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2002
P N Bloom , G T Gundlach
Handbook of marketing and society Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Borghesi , J F Houston , A Naranjo
Corporate socially responsible investments: CEO altruism, reputation, and shareholder interests
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 26 , issue C , p. 164 - 181 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Y Cai , H Jo , C Pan
Doing well while doing bad? CSR in controversial industry sectors
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 108 , issue 4 , p. 467 - 480 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
964
RANK
601,090
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies