Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Networks Analysis in Accounting and Finance

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 11 Dec 2019 Last revised: 25 Sep 2022

Pietro A. Bianchi

Bocconi

Monika Causholli

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Miguel Minutti-Meza

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Valbona Sulcaj

University of Texas at El Paso - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: September 23, 2022

Abstract

Social network analysis (SNA) examines whether interactions between individuals, teams, and organizations result in network structures and patterns that can explain important outcomes, including firm performance, management reporting behaviors, investor beliefs, and audit outcomes. This paper reviews the growing body of work on SNA in accounting and finance research, focusing on 162 articles published between 2000 and 2021, and offers a roadmap that may help move this literature forward. Our survey summarizes the elements of SNA, organizes this literature within a theoretical framework, and provides a thematic discussion of the context and contribution of the selected studies. We also discuss opportunities and challenges for future research. Finally, we include an empirical illustration of the key concepts and tools of SNA. We believe that SNA will continue to offer an interesting avenue for conducting high-impact and cross-disciplinary research in accounting and finance.

Accepted at Contemporary Accounting Research

Full text available: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/share/44DTSTUDAAKVX5XBP4DZ?target=10.1111/1911-3846.12826

Keywords: social network analysis, networks, board interlocks, corporate links, social capital, literature review

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Bianchi, Pietro A. and Causholli, Monika and Minutti-Meza, Miguel and Sulcaj, Valbona, Social Networks Analysis in Accounting and Finance (September 23, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3495299 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3495299
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,399
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies