Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Thirty Years After Jensen’s Prediction – Is Private Equity a Superior Form of Ownership?

30 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2019

Ludovic Phalippou

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Peter Morris

Independent

Date Written: November 29, 2019

Abstract

Almost exactly 30 years ago, a famous article by Michael Jensen in the Harvard Business Review predicted that private equity would “eclipse” the public corporation because it was a superior form of corporate ownership. Trends since 1989 seem to bear out Jensen’s prediction. Much time and energy has gone into studying whether private equity’s model does see companies being run better for investors and society. Progress has been made and most studies find positive results. Yet, samples are usually relatively small; and, PE transactions create many layers of newly formed companies, which makes it hard to find financial statements that are both consolidated and granular enough. After thirty years of research, we argue that we are much further to a conclusive answer than we might think.

Suggested Citation:

Phalippou, Ludovic and Morris, Peter, Thirty Years After Jensen’s Prediction – Is Private Equity a Superior Form of Ownership? (November 29, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3495465 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3495465
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
V V Acharya , O Gottschalg , M Hahn , C Kehoe
Corporate governance and value creation: Evidence from private equity
Review of Financial Studies , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 368 - 402 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A Agrawal , P Tambe
Private Equity and Workers' Career Paths: The Role of Technological Change
Review of Financial Studies , volume 29 , issue 9 , p. 2455 - 2489 Posted: 2016
Crossref
D Bansraj , H T J Smit , V Volosovych
Can Private Equity Funds Act as Strategic Buyers? Evidence from Buy-and-Build Strategies Posted: 2019
S Bernstein , J Lerner , F Mezzanotti
Private Equity and Financial Fragility during the Crisis
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 1309 - 1373 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,568
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,209
RANK
27,132
8 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies