Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Time Encoding in Languages and Investment Efficiency

Management Science, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2020

Jaehyeon Kim

Nazarbayev University - Graduate School of Business

Yongtae Kim

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Jian Zhou

University of Hawaii at Manoa

Date Written: November 29, 2019

Abstract

Linguistics research shows that languages differ as to how they differentiate future from present events. Economics research finds that when the grammatical structure of a language disassociates the future from the present, speakers of the language also disassociate the future from the present in their behaviors. This study examines how linguistically induced time perception relates to cross-country variation in investment efficiency. We find that underinvestment is less prevalent in countries where there is a weaker time disassociation in the language. The results from both a within-country analysis based on firms headquartered in different regions of Switzerland and an analysis based on the birthplace information of US firms’ CEOs confirm the relation between languages and investment efficiency. Collectively, the results suggest that time encoding in languages influences speakers’ cognition and their investment decisions.

Keywords: Languages, linguistics, time encoding, future time reference, investment efficiency

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jaehyeon and Kim, Yongtae and Zhou, Jian, Time Encoding in Languages and Investment Efficiency (November 29, 2019). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3495863
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
K R Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
J. Financial Econom , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
Crossref
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
Accounting Rev , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M Baker , J C Stein , J Wurgler
When does the market matter? Stock prices and the investment of equity-dependent firms
Quart. J. Econom , volume 118 , issue 3 , p. 969 - 1005 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L S Bamber , J Jiang , Wang
What's my style? The influence of top managers on voluntary corporate financial disclosure
Accounting Rev , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
323
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,159
RANK
213,801
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies