Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Corporate Social Responsibility in India An Analysis of Selected Companies in India

Indian Journal of Accounting, Vol. 51 (2), December, 2019, pp. 19-26

8 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2019

M. L. Ashok

University of Mysore

Abhishek N

Institute of Management and Commerce, Srinivas University; University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; NIE FIRST GRADE COLLEGE; Sri Nataraja Residential First Grade College for Women

Divyashree M. S.

Government First Grade College

Date Written: November 30, 2019

Abstract

The Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainable development are interrelated concepts and which creates good reputations to the organisations involved in undertaking such projects voluntarily as well as the part of legal compliance. The companies Act 2013 is provided certain guidelines on reporting of CSR initiatives but it is necessary to have the standard which is acceptable at the global level for accounting and reporting the same to give the required information to the stakeholders. The main objective of this paper is to analyse the uniformity of accounting and reporting of CSR and Sustainability initiatives of selected companies and also to analyse the perception of accounting reporting of CSR initiatives from various stakeholders. For this purpose study collected data from both primary and secondary data and found that there is a uniformity in accounting and reporting of CSR and Sustainability initiatives information of selected companies.

Keywords: CSR and Sustainability Accounting, GRI, Harmonisation of CSR Accounting

JEL Classification: M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Ashok, M. L. and N, Abhishek and M. S., Divyashree, Accounting for Corporate Social Responsibility in India An Analysis of Selected Companies in India (November 30, 2019). Indian Journal of Accounting, Vol. 51 (2), December, 2019, pp. 19-26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3495954
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
269
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,427
RANK
259,334
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies