Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Quality and Wage Differentials: Evidence from Worker-Level Data

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 3844

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

73 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2019 Last revised: 21 Jan 2024

Jung Ho Choi

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Brandon Gipper

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Sara Malik

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Date Written: August 23, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether financial reporting quality affects worker wages using employer-employee matched data in the U.S. We find that low financial reporting quality is associated with a compensating wage differential—i.e., a risk premium—even after controlling for worker characteristics. We find consistent evidence of this relation using three distinct methodologies: (i) regression analyses of wage differentials on firm-level reporting quality, (ii) documenting workers’ wage changes upon switching to low financial reporting quality firms, and (iii) a structural approach that separates reporting quality from performance-related volatility. We explore two channels underpinning this association: the performance pay and turnover risk channels, where workers bear risks from noise in performance measurement and unemployment, respectively. We find that the association is stronger when industries use more performance pay for rank-and-file employees and that firms with low reporting quality exhibit high employee turnover. To mitigate endogeneity concerns over omitted firm characteristics, we show that—after the accounting scandals in 2002 and after the announcements of an internal control weakness (ICW)—former Arthur Andersen clients and ICW firms pay wage premiums to employees, with magnitudes between 0.9% to 2.8% of annual wages.

Keywords: Financial Reporting Quality, Wage Differentials, Performance Pay, Investment Inefficiently, Turnover

JEL Classification: D83, J31, J63, M41, M51, M52

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Jung Ho and Gipper, Brandon and Malik, Sara, Financial Reporting Quality and Wage Differentials: Evidence from Worker-Level Data (August 23, 2022). Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 3844, Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3496103 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3496103
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
John M Abowd , H Robert , Francis Creecy , Kramarz
Computing person and firm effects using linked longitudinal employer-employee data Posted: 2002
John M Abowd , Orley Ashenfelter
Anticipated Unemployment, Temporary Layoffs, and Compensating Wage Differentials , p. 141 - 170 Posted: 1981
John M Abowd , Bryce E Stephens , Lars Vilhuber , Fredrik Andersson , Kevin L Mckinney , Marc Roemer , Simon Woodcock
The LEHD Infrastructure Files and the Creation of Quarterly Workforce Indicators Posted: 2005
John M Abowd , Francis Kramarz , David N Margolis
High wage workers and high wage firms
Econometrica , volume 67 , p. 251 - 333 Posted: 1999
Load more
7 Citations
John (Jianqiu) Bai , Matthew Serfling , Sarah Shaikh
Financial disclosure transparency and employee wages
Financial Review , volume 57 , issue 4 , p. 751 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Fadhila Hamza
Information and Communication Technology in Technical and Vocational Education and Training for Sustainable and Equal Opportunity
, volume 38 , p. 143 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Jung Ho Choi , Brandon Gipper
Fraudulent Financial Reporting and the Consequences for Employees
Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 19-19, Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming · 98 Pages · Posted: 8 May 2019 · Last revised: 12 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 1,561
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Siew Hong Teoh , Yuqing Zhou , Christos Makridis
Understanding Reputation Damage to Firm Culture: Insights from Employee Perceptions Post Financial Misconduct
53 Pages · Posted: 18 Oct 2019 · Last revised: 3 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 696
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
886
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,830
RANK
61,863
7 Citations
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies