Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Goodwill and Stock Price Crash Risk: An International Study

52 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2019

Wen He

Monash University

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Chao Kevin Li

The University of Adelaide

Yi Si

The School of Management, Xi'an Jiaotong University

Date Written: November 30, 2019

Abstract

Using data from 43 markets around the world, we document that firms with larger goodwill balances have a higher stock price crash risk in future years. The positive association between goodwill balances and future crash risk is stronger for firms with weaker incentives to provide transparent disclosure, in markets with poorer investor protection or weaker accounting and auditing enforcement, and after periodic goodwill amortization was replaced by fair-value- based goodwill impairment. Further evidence suggests that goodwill balances are positively related to a measure of bad news withholding. Overall, the results are consistent with the view that managers have greater tendency to withhold negative information about goodwill and delay the release of information about the economic impairments of goodwill, thereby leading to increasing the likelihood of stock price crash occurrences in the future.

Keywords: Goodwill, intangible assets, accounting standards, stock price crash risk

JEL Classification: G14, G41

Suggested Citation:

He, Wen and Kim, Jeong-Bon and Li, Chao and Si, Yi, Goodwill and Stock Price Crash Risk: An International Study (November 30, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3496064 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3496064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
P André , A Filip , L Paugam
Impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on conditional conservatism in Europe
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 42 , issue 3/4 , p. 482 - 514 Posted: 2015
Crossref
P Andre´ , A Filip , L Paugam
Examining the patterns of goodwill impairments in Europe and the U
S. Accounting in Europe , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 329 - 352 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R Ball
International financial reporting standards (IFRS): Pros and cons for investors
Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Qiankun Gu , Jeong‐Bon Kim , Ke Liao , Yi Si
Decentralising for local information? Evidence from state‐owned listed firms in China
Accounting & Finance Posted: 2023
Crossref
Xiaoran Ni , Yi Si , Bohui Zhang
Climate Vulnerability and Stock Price Crash Risk Worldwide
55 Pages · Posted: 19 Nov 2021 · Last revised: 11 Nov 2022 · Downloads: 308
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
599
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,721
RANK
103,399
2 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies