Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Affect of Operational Ratio on Corporate Governance of Emirates Nbd in United Arab Emirates (UAE)

34 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2019

Nur Nabilah Syafiqah Ramli

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: November 21, 2019

Abstract

This study investigates the interdependence between the risks in the presence of corporate governance in banking sector that listed in United Arab Emirates (UAE). There are a few variables used to determine the risks and the performance of the selected bank over five-year period of annual report from 2014 to 2018. This study utilized the main risks associated with the selected bank namely corporate governance, credit risk, operational risk, liquidity risk and market risk against the bank’s performance. These entire ratios will determine the performance associated with Emirates National of Dubai from the year 2014 to 2018. All the data collected is analyse by using IBM Social Science Statistical Package (SPSS) version 25.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Credit Risk, Operational Risk, Liquidity Risk, Market Risk

JEL Classification: G3, G38

Suggested Citation:

Ramli, Nur Nabilah Syafiqah, The Affect of Operational Ratio on Corporate Governance of Emirates Nbd in United Arab Emirates (UAE) (November 21, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3496764 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3496764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Allen , Bali ; L Allen , T Bali
Cyclicality in catastrophic and operational risk measurements
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 31 , p. 1191 - 1235 Posted: 2007
J Armstrong , G Caldwell
Liquidity risk at banks: Trends and lessons learned from the recent turmoil
Financial System Review , p. 47 - 52 Posted: 2008
Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision Posted: 1997
M F Basheer
Impact of Corporate Governance on Corporate Cash Holdings: An empirical study of firms in manufacturing industry of Pakistan
International Journal of Innovation and Applied Studies , volume 7 , issue 4 Posted: 2014
Load more
1 Citations
Essia Ries Ahmed , Tariq Tawfeeq Yousif Alabdullah , Muhammad Shabir Shaharudin
Approaches to Control Mechanisms and Their Implications for Companies ’ Profitability: a Study in UAE
Journal of Accounting Science , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 11 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
741
RANK
653,768
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies