Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Study of Selected Corporate Governance Mechanisms in Listed Banking and Finance Companies: Empirical Evidence From Sri Lanka

Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Multidisciplinary Approaches (iCMA) 2019 | Faculty of Graduate Studies, University of Sri Jayewardenepura

Posted: 6 Dec 2019

DDHM Yasarathna

Department of Accountancy, Faculty of Business Studies and Finance, Wayamba University of Sri Lanka

Hiranya Dissanayake

Wayamba University of Sri Lanka

Thilini Deshika

Independent

Date Written: December 3, 2019

Abstract

Extant studies found that the compliance level of corporate governance in banks is with a higher score and Finance companies is low in Sri Lankan listed companies. But there is a dearth of studies related to the comparison of corporate governance in banking and non-banking sector companies. Therefore, this study is carried out for bridging the empirical gap by conducting comparative study on analysing and understanding the difference of corporate governance in banking and non- banking finance companies in Sri Lanka based on the Institutional Theory. This study is a quantitative study and archival data is gathered based on the audited annual set of financial statements and other significant disclosures for the two years 2017 and 2018. The sample consisted of 25 companies with 12 banking companies and 13 non-banking companies with higher market capitalisation, those were listed under “Bank Finance and Insurance Sector” of Colombo Stock Exchange. The gathered data was screened and analysed by using independent sample t-test. To measure the level of selected corporate governance mechanisms the researchers used board size, board independence, board meetings, committee meetings and concentration shareholding as variables which are used by the past researchers as proxies for the Corporate Governance. This study reveals that, there is a significant mean difference in board size, board independence, board meetings, committee meetings which is higher in banking companies which means better corporate governance in banking companies whereas regarding concentration shareholding, finance companies show a higher mean difference which is a weak corporate governance practice. The present study will contribute to the Institutional Theory concerning the corporate governance differences in banking and finance companies. Further this study is empirically significant by adding new knowledge to fill the empirical gap. This study identifies the areas to be improved in order to achieve higher corporate governance by finance companies.

Keywords: board size, board independence, board meetings, committee meetings, concentration shareholding

Suggested Citation:

Yasarathna, DDHM and Dissanayake, Hiranya and Deshika, Thilini, Comparative Study of Selected Corporate Governance Mechanisms in Listed Banking and Finance Companies: Empirical Evidence From Sri Lanka (December 3, 2019). Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Multidisciplinary Approaches (iCMA) 2019 | Faculty of Graduate Studies, University of Sri Jayewardenepura, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3497529
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
743
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies