Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Restatements, Managerial Learning, and Optimal Reporting Bias

39 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2019

Marie Herly

Department of Economics and Business Economics, Aarhus University

Nikolaj Niebuhr Lambertsen

Aarhus University - Department of Economics and Business Economics

Date Written: November 30, 2019

Abstract

Financial restatements are costly, but frequent, events and many firms restate several times. This paper asks why rational managers engage in misreporting, in spite of the costly consequences. We present a simple extension to the Fischer and Verrecchia (2000) model, which provides testable predictions regarding the relation between the cost of restatements and reporting bias. In our model, the observed cost of a restatement conveys information to the manager about the true reputation cost of biasing financial statements, which he incorporates into his optimal choice of bias. A restatement hence offers the manager an opportunity to learn about the true cost of reporting bias, and he only updates his biasing strategy if the observed cost differs from his expectation. Consistent with this prediction, we find that firms' reporting bias is decreasing in the reputation costs observed after a restatement, such that managers only reduce future bias if the observed cost of restating was larger than expected. This effect seems stronger when we allow firms to update the expected cost of restatement based on more restatements. Our results indicate that rational managers use the insights from prior restatements to improve their future bias strategy.

Keywords: Restatements, Managerial Learning, Reporting Bias, Fraud, Accounting Regulation, Incentives, Signaling, Disclosure, Reporting, Earnings Quality

JEL Classification: D82, D84, G14, G32, M40, M41, M42, M48, M49, M52.

Suggested Citation:

Herly, Marie and Lambertsen, Nikolaj Niebuhr, Restatements, Managerial Learning, and Optimal Reporting Bias (November 30, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3497538 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3497538
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,103
RANK
545,411
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies