Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relationship Between Corporate Governance and Dividends: Outcome vs. Substitute Model

14 Pages Posted: 24 Dec 2019

Alexander Larin

National Research University Higher School of Economics (Moscow)

Anna Novak

Bank of Russia

Irina Khvostova

National Research University Higher School of Economics (Moscow)

Date Written: December 3, 2019

Abstract

The article discusses the relationship between dividend policy and the quality of corporate governance. On the one hand, decisions on payout policy can be viewed as a mechanism for resolving agency conflict or substitutes for best corporate governance practices, on the other hand, the quality of corporate governance itself is a determining factor in corporate financial decisions. Empirical literature fids proof for both types of the relationship. This paper aims to analyze different explanations of mixed results. We find a set of factors that can affect the link between corporate governance quality and dividend payouts. We show that in some cases substitution effect can dominate the payout policy, but the more often indicators tend to increase Outcome effect with the increase in their values. Positive addition of operational margin and beta as well as negative effects of ROA and firm size do not contradict to the shareholder’s interests and support the idea that dividends work in combination with corporate governance practices to meet the needs.

Keywords: agency conflict, corporate governance, payout policy, panel data, Tobit-model

JEL Classification: G34, G35

Suggested Citation:

Larin, Alexander and Novak, Anna and Khvostova, Irina, Relationship Between Corporate Governance and Dividends: Outcome vs. Substitute Model (December 3, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3497579 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3497579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
F Adjaoud , W Ben-Amar
Corporate governance and dividend policy: shareholders' protection or expropriation
Journal of business finance & accounting , volume 37 , p. 648 - 667 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Aggarwal , I Erel , R Stulz , R Williamson
Differences in governance practices between US and foreign firms: Measurement, causes, and consequences
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 8 , p. 3131 - 3169 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J H Anthony , K Ramesh
Association between accounting performance measures and stock prices: A test of the life cycle hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and economics , volume 15 , issue 2-3 , p. 203 - 227 Posted: 1992
F Barca , M Becht
The control of corporate Europe Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,305
RANK
304,916
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies