Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compliance with Disclosure Principles and Financial Performance: Empirical Evidence from Sri Lankan Listed Companies

Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Multidisciplinary Approaches (iCMA) 2019 | Faculty of Graduate Studies, University of Sri Jayewardenepura

Posted: 6 Dec 2019

Hiranya Dissanayake

Wayamba University of Sri Lanka

Hareendra Dissabandara

University of Sri Jayewardenepura

Roshan Ajward

University of Sri Jayewardenepura

Date Written: December 3, 2019

Abstract

This study attempts to examine the relationship between the quality of a firm's disclosure principles related to corporate governance practices and such firm’s financial performance, through the construction of a broad firm-specific Information and Disclosure Index (IDI) for a sample of 130 listed companies in Sri Lanka for the period of 2009 to 2016. The Signalling theory indicates that better disclosure is related to superior performance of firms, and thus has been used as the theoretical basis of this study in addition to the Agency theory. The data required for the study was collected using secondary sources, i.e., using the audited annual report data and articles of associations of respective companies. IDI was constructed using fifteen components to measure the compliance level of disclosures related corporate governance principles as stipulated in the CA Sri Lanka, OECD and UK codes of best practices on corporate governance, which was then used to score each company on a dichotomous scale. Financial Performance was measured by Return on Equity (internal financial performance of a firm) and Tobin’s Q (to present the external market performance of a firm). In order to examine the relationship between the disclosures (IDI) and financial performance, both a Pearson’s correlation and panel regression analyses (including the Hausman testing) were performed after data screening and cleaning as well as the diagnostics tests. In terms of the main findings, the descriptive analysis indicates that more than 70% (mean) of Sri Lankan firms have complied with disclosure principles of corporate governance practices, and the panel regression analysis indicated that firms with sound corporate governance disclosure (i.e., higher IDI) have significantly superior internal financial performance (measured via ROE). Thus, this study provides empirical support for the Signaling and Agency theoretical perspectives in the context of compliance requirements of disclosure, which leads to higher financial performance. Accordingly, as policy implications, regulators and policymakers need to establish monitoring mechanisms to ensure that firms comply with governance principles via formal institutional changes leading to stricter enforcement.



Keywords: corporate governance, information disclosure, signaling theory, agency theory

Suggested Citation:

Dissanayake, Hiranya and Dissabandara, Hareendra and Ajward, Roshan, Compliance with Disclosure Principles and Financial Performance: Empirical Evidence from Sri Lankan Listed Companies (December 3, 2019). Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Multidisciplinary Approaches (iCMA) 2019 | Faculty of Graduate Studies, University of Sri Jayewardenepura, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3497536
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
794
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies