Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Liquidity Risk of Mercedes-Benz

25 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2019

Nur Khalisa Azman

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: December 2, 2019

Abstract

This research purpose is to measure Mercedes-Benz’s corporate governance and its impact to firm liquidity risk and performance. The method of this research is by using regression analysis of Mercedes-Benz through SPSS Software. This research had analyse that Mercedes-Benz’s liquidity performance is worsen years by years. The regression analysis shows that internal factors and external factors influence liquidity risk in this company.

Keywords: liquidity risk, macroeconomics and corporate governance

JEL Classification: G3, G32

Suggested Citation:

Azman, Nur Khalisa, Corporate Governance and Liquidity Risk of Mercedes-Benz (December 2, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3498613 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3498613
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
A S Alshatti
The effect of credit risk management on financial performance of the Jordanian Posted: 2015-04-30
Amit Mehta , M N
Managing market risk: Today and Tomorrow Posted: 2012-05
I Analyst
Market risk explained Posted: 2019
C Australia
Guide to managing. Retrieved from CPA Australia Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
887
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,750
RANK
61,779
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies