Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Relationships, Earnings Quality and Cost of Debt: Cross-Country Evidence on Private Firms

55 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2019

Jochen Bigus

Free University Berlin, Department Accounting and Finance

Christa Hillebrand

Free University of Berlin (FUB)

Aline Grahn

Free University of Berlin (FUB)

Date Written: April 2019

Abstract

We expect that private firms choose a close relationship with a bank – often based on private information – in order to save on direct or proprietary costs of disclosure. For a large sample of bank relationships in 12 European countries, we find evidence that close bank relationships are associated with lower earnings quality as measured by higher absolute discretionary accruals and less timely loss recognition. This effect is stronger for firms with high proprietary costs. Further, we find that the strength of creditor rights intensifies the link between close bank relationships and earnings quality, while tax-book conformity moderates it. Finally, we show that close bank relationships directly tend to decrease the borrowing firms’ cost of debt by about 40 basis points on average. Indirectly, the cost of debt increase, because relationship lending goes along with lower earnings quality and relationship banks charge higher interest rates for poorer earnings quality than do other lenders. The findings suggest that relationship lending and financial disclosures can be considered as substitutes and that this relation is affected by the institutional framework. The paper also highlights that relationship lending implies a direct negative and an indirect positive effect on the borrowing firm’s cost of debt.

Keywords: Bank relationships, Private firms, Financial reporting quality, Creditor protection, Cross-country study

JEL Classification: G21, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bigus, Jochen and Hillebrand, Christa and Grahn, Aline, Bank Relationships, Earnings Quality and Cost of Debt: Cross-Country Evidence on Private Firms (April 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3498335 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3498335
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,010
RANK
401,016
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies