Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internet Financial Reporting Adoption: Exploring the Influence of Board Role Performance and Isomorphic Forces

Journal of Economics, Finance & Administrative Science, Vol. 24, No. 48, 2019

22 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2019

Juma Bananuka

Makerere University

Sadress Night

Makerere University

Muhammed Ngoma

Makerere University

Grace Muganga Najjemba

Makerere University

Date Written: December 5, 2019

Abstract

Purpose – This study aims to examine the contribution of board role performance and isomorphic forces on internet financial reporting.

Design/methodology/approach – This study is cross-sectional and correlational. Data were collected through a questionnaire survey of 40 financial services firms. The study’s unit of analysis was a firm. Chief Internal Auditors and Chief Finance Officers were the study’s unit of inquiry. Data were analyzed through correlation coefficients and linear regression using Statistical Package for Social Sciences.

Findings – The results suggest that board role performance and isomorphic forces are significant predictors of internet financial reporting. However, board role performance is not a significant predictor of internet financial reporting in the presence of isomorphic forces. The control and strategic roles of the board are positively and significantly associated with internet financial reporting unlike the service role. Only the coercive isomorphism is positively and significantly associated with internet financial reporting unlike the normative and mimetic isomorphism.

Originality/value – This study provides initial empirical evidence on the contribution of board role performance and isomorphic forces on internet financial reporting using evidence from Uganda’s financial service firms. To the researcher’s knowledge, this is the first perception-based study on internet financial reporting.

Keywords: Internet financial reporting, Isomorphic forces

JEL Classification: C12, C21, C42, G1, G38

Suggested Citation:

Bananuka, Juma and Night, Sadress and Ngoma, Muhammed and Najjemba, Grace Muganga, Internet Financial Reporting Adoption: Exploring the Influence of Board Role Performance and Isomorphic Forces (December 5, 2019). Journal of Economics, Finance & Administrative Science, Vol. 24, No. 48, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3499273
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
O Abdelsalam , A El-Masry
The impact of board independence and ownership structure on the timeliness of corporate internet reporting of Irish-listed companies
Managerial Finance , volume 34 , issue 12 , p. 907 - 918 Posted: 2008
Crossref
F Aboagye-Otchere , J Agbeibor
The international financial reporting standard for small and medium-sized entities (IFRS for SMES): suitability for small businesses in Ghana
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 190 - 214 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A H Ahmed , M B Burton , T M Dunne
The determinants of corporate internet reporting in Egypt: an exploratory analysis
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 60 Posted: 2017
Crossref
L T Al-Kayed , S R S M Zain , J Duasa
The relationship between capital structure and performance of Islamic banks
Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business Research , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 158 - 181 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
576
RANK
864,457
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies