Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
It’s a Small World: The Importance of Social Connections with Auditors to Mutual Fund Managers’ Portfolio Decisions

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

77 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2019 Last revised: 3 Aug 2021

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Jun Huang

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Ting Li

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Date Written: July 26, 2021

Abstract

We find that mutual funds whose managers are socially connected with firm auditors hold more shares of these firms and generate superior portfolio returns. Cross-sectional results reveal that the relation between social connections and mutual fund stockholdings is more pronounced: when the social connections are stronger; when the auditor is in a better position or has stronger incentives to acquire private information; when the fund manager exercises more power; for small audit firms; for auditors in areas with poor investor protection; and for public firms with greater business opacity or private information. Other results are consistent with fund managers electing to schedule their corporate site visits to coincide with the fieldwork of their connected auditors, as would be expected if fund managers time their visits to meet with these auditors to facilitate information transfer. Additionally, we observe associations between fund trading prior to earnings surprises and audit opinions, and the presence of social connections between fund managers and firm auditors. Finally, we show that mutual funds and firms in which they invest tend to appoint connected auditors and pay them higher fees. Collectively, we document empirical patterns that would arise if socially connected auditors and mutual fund managers share information.

Keywords: Social Connections, Auditor Incentives, Mutual Fund Stockholding

JEL Classification: G11, G23, M42

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yangyang and Huang, Jun and Li, Ting and Pittman, Jeffrey A., It’s a Small World: The Importance of Social Connections with Auditors to Mutual Fund Managers’ Portfolio Decisions (July 26, 2021). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3499617 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3499617
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
J Aharony , J Wang , H Yuan
Tunneling as an Incentive for Earnings Management during the IPO Process in China
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H Almeida , V Fos , M Kronlund
The Real Effects of Share Repurchases
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 119 , issue 1 , p. 168 - 185 Posted: 2016
Crossref
D Aobdia
Proprietary Information Spillovers and Supplier Choice: Evidence from Auditors
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1504 - 1539 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Beck , J Gunn , N Hallman
The Geographic Decentralization of Audit Firms and Audit Quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
555
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,611
RANK
114,072
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies