Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Firms Inappropriately Capitalize Development Costs? Evidence From China

Posted: 8 Jan 2020

Kaiying Ji

University of Sydney Business School

Deren Xie

Tsinghua University

Dengjin Zheng

Central University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: November 15, 2019

Abstract

An ongoing, unresolved heated debate in accounting practice relates to whether capitalization of development costs should be allowed. This study contributes to the debate by developing a new approach to examining the implementation of development costs capitalization in the second largest economy – China ‒ and provides some evidence as to whether firms inappropriately capitalize development costs. We argue that capitalization of development costs should be positively associated with R&D outputs, and absence of such association indicates inappropriate implementation of capitalization. Using data from listed firms in China over the period 2007‒2017, we find that capitalization of development costs is, in general, positively associated with R&D outputs, and such association is stronger for State-owned Enterprises and qualified High- and New-technology Enterprises. This association can be strengthened by more restrictive scrutiny; however, it can also be weakened when firms have higher agency costs and financial constraints. Furthermore, results suggest that capitalization of development costs is significantly and positively associated with current and future firm value, and the correlation is strengthening over time. This study finds that, in general, the capitalization of (higher) development costs does have positive association with higher R&D outputs, however, inappropriate implementation is possible under some settings. It sheds some light on the ongoing debate between IFRS and US GAAP surrounding expensing versus capitalizing development costs, and has implications for practitioners, auditors, and investors with potential risks involved in the implicit R&D accounting choice.

Keywords: Capitalization, Development costs, Patent, Productivity

JEL Classification: M4, G18, O3

Suggested Citation:

Ji, Kaiying and Xie, Deren and Zheng, Dengjin, Do Firms Inappropriately Capitalize Development Costs? Evidence From China (November 15, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3499313
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
642
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies