Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability and Corporate Governance: A Mini-Review

25 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2019

Fatema Al Hammadi

Abu Dhabi University

Haitham Nobanee

Abu Dhabi University; University of Oxford; University of Liverpool

Date Written: December 9, 2019

Abstract

Corporate governance is the method by which concerns are measured and absorbed. Boards of executives are answerable for the governance of their corporations. The stakeholder’s character in the firm’s governance is to employ the auditors and the directors and to content themselves that a suitable governance arrangement is in place (James Chen, 2019).

While the definition of corporate sustainability is assumed as the capability of firms to surely affect social in many fields such as economic development and the environment through their governance observes and market attendance (Wikipedia, 2019).

The main purpose of this paper is to explore financial sustainability, on the matching stakeholders and shareholder's value of firms especially by talking about the Relationship Between Corporate Governance and Sustainability Examining the existing various corporate sustainable practices, Built on findings of the systematic literature review.

Keywords: Sustainability, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Al Hammadi, Fatema and Nobanee, Haitham, Sustainability and Corporate Governance: A Mini-Review (December 9, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3500885 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3500885
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
James Chen
Corporate Governance Definition
Corporate Wikipedia , Sustainability
Posted: 2019
Nicholas J Price
What Is the Relationship Between Corporate Governance & Sustainability?, diligent insights Posted: 2018
N A A Aziz , N A Manab , S N Othman
exploring the perspectives of corporate governance and theories on sustainability risk management
Asian Econ. Financ. Rev , volume 5 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,499
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,513
RANK
29,043
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies