Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital-Market Liberalization and Auditors' Accounting Adjustments: Evidence from a Quasi-Experiment

64 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2019 Last revised: 14 May 2021

Yingwen Deng

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Cyndia Wang

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Min Zhang

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Date Written: May 14, 2021

Abstract

Using a shock to the Chinese capital market and unique and detailed audit-adjustment data, this paper investigates the effect of a capital-market liberalization program on auditors’ adjustments to their clients’ financial reports. Employing difference-in-differences tests with propensity-score matching and firm fixed effects, we find that the capital-market liberalization induced by the implementation of the Shanghai - Hong Kong Stock Connect affects auditors’ professional judgment and leads to audit-adjustment changes stimulated by greater reputational and litigation risks for auditors. Specifically, while the liberalization significantly decreases the frequency and magnitude of upward audit adjustments, the probability of downward adjustments remains the same in most cases. Further evidence shows that the effect is more pronounced for companies with high trading volume from Hong Kong investors, audited by the largest audit firms, and with low financial transparency.

Keywords: Auditing, stock-market liberalization, audit adjustments, monitoring effects of market participants, asymmetric auditor behavior, China, regulations

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G38, M10, M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Deng, Yingwen and Hope, Ole-Kristian and Wang, Cyndia and Zhang, Min, Capital-Market Liberalization and Auditors' Accounting Adjustments: Evidence from a Quasi-Experiment (May 14, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3501952 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3501952
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , T C Zhang
When the PCAOB Talks, Who Listens? Evidence from Stakeholder Reaction to GAAP-Deficient PCAOB Inspection Reports of Small Auditors
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
Crossref
G A Akerlof
The missing motivation in macroeconomics
American Economic Review , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 36 Posted: 2007
Crossref
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, Finance, and Economic Growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A G Backof , E M Bamber , T D Carpenter
Do Auditor Judgment Frameworks Help in Constraining Aggressive Reporting? Evidence under More Precise and Less Precise Accounting Standards
Accounting, Organizations, and Society , volume 51 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
543
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,979
RANK
117,225
4 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies