Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Board Characteristics on the Relationship between International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption and Earnings Management: Evidence from China

Journal of Accounting and Taxation, Vol. 11(9), pp. 145-154, October-December 2019

10 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2019 Last revised: 13 Dec 2019

Dr. Ahmad Alqatan

Portsmouth Business school

Khaldoon Albitar

University of Glasgow

Wei Huang

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law - School of Accounting

Date Written: September 25, 2019

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopting on earning management by considering the role of board size and board independence. Univariate tests and multivariate regression analysis were employed to test whether the level of earnings management is significantly lower after the adoption of IFRS and whether the role of board size and board independence on constraining the earnings managements is higher after IFRS adoption for a sample of Chinese listed companies during the period 2003 to 2013 except 2007 over a four-year period before and a six-year period after the adoption of IFRS. The empirical results show that earning management increased after the adoption of IFRS. However, there is no relationship between board size and earnings management before and after the adoption of IFRS but board independence has significantly decreased the earning management after the adoption of IFRS in China. The findings of this study have important implications for policymakers, auditors, multinational firms, and users of financial reports. As the rapid growth of China's economy gains global recognition, the Chinese stock market is capturing the attention of international investor.

Keywords: Earning management, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Board size, Board independence

Suggested Citation:

Alqatan, Ahmad and Albitar, Khaldoon and Huang, Wei, The Role of Board Characteristics on the Relationship between International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption and Earnings Management: Evidence from China (September 25, 2019). Journal of Accounting and Taxation, Vol. 11(9), pp. 145-154, October-December 2019 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3501962
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A Ali , S Akbar , P Ormrod , S Z Shah
Impact of IFRS on the quality of financial information in the United Kingdom and France
Australian Accounting Review , volume 2017 , p. 360 - 375 Posted: 2017
U Bajra , S Cadez
The impact of corporate governance quality on earnings management: Evidence from European companies cross-listed in the US
Australian Accounting Review , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 152 - 166 Posted: 2018
Crossref
E Bakker
Interpretation and application of IFRS standards Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
363
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,497
RANK
187,924
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies