Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring the Nexus Between Research and Development Expenditures and Corporate Financial Performance: A Sectoral Analysis

American Journal of Management Vol. 19(4) 2019 133

22 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2020 Last revised: 20 Jan 2020

Geoffrey VanderPal

Purdue University Global

Date Written: December 4, 2019

Abstract

The financial outcomes of research and development (R&D) expenditures are not instantaneous and straightforward. To explore the varied perspectives of these relationships this study employs Generalized Method of Moments (GMM). Analyses reveals significant variances in different asset classes and in different sectors, besides finding the evidence of multiple regimes. The findings provide insights in the risk-return paradigm of R&D investment, and the successive return, besides helping the policy makers to settle the priority sector to get the expected result in line with the country’s investment policy.

Keywords: Innovation, Sustainability, Intangible Assets, Nexus of R&D Expenditures, Research and Development (R&D),Accounting, Finance, Intangible Assets, Corporate Finance, Financial Performance, Investment Policy, Sector Performance

JEL Classification: G, M

Suggested Citation:

VanderPal, Geoffrey, Exploring the Nexus Between Research and Development Expenditures and Corporate Financial Performance: A Sectoral Analysis (December 4, 2019). American Journal of Management Vol. 19(4) 2019 133, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3501939 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3501939
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
G Bottazzi , A Secchi
Common properties and sectoral specificities in the dynamics of US manufacturing companies
Review of Industrial Organization , volume 23 , issue 3-4 , p. 217 - 232 Posted: 2003
Crossref
G Bottazzi , A Secchi , F Tamagni
Productivity, profitability and financial fragility: empirical evidence from Italian business firms Posted: 2007
G Cainelli , R Evangelista , M Savona
Innovation and economic performance in services: a firm-level analysis
Cambridge Journal of Economics , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 435 - 458 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Cazavan-Jeny , T Jeanjean , P Joos
Accounting choice and future performance: The case of R&D accounting in France
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 145 - 165 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,062
RANK
560,264
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies