Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Fast Track: Information Acquisition Costs and Information Production

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 20-14

80 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2020 Last revised: 9 Apr 2021

Deqiu Chen

University of International Business and Economics

Yujing Ma

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Xiumin Martin

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin School of Business

Roni Michaely

The University of Hong Kong; ECGI

Date Written: April 1, 2021

Abstract

Using the introduction of high-speed rail (HSR) as an exogenous shock to costs of information acquisition, we show reductions in information-acquisition costs lead to (i) a significant increase in information production, evidenced by a higher frequency of analysts visiting portfolio firms, and (ii) improvement in output quality, manifested in higher forecast accuracy and better recommendations. The effect is more pronounced for firms with information that is difficult to produce. Importantly, more information production is also associated with improved price efficiency. We corroborate these findings using a large-scale survey of financial analysts. Finally, both the empirical and survey results highlight the importance of soft information in analysts’ unique-information production.

Keywords: Information acquisition, Acquisition cost, Information quality, Soft information, Sell side analysts, Price efficiency

JEL Classification: D8, G14, G2, G24, G3

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Deqiu and Ma, Yujing and Martin, Xiumin and Michaely, Roni, On the Fast Track: Information Acquisition Costs and Information Production (April 1, 2021). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 20-14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3503441 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3503441
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
H Hong , J D Kubik , A Solomon
Security analysts' career concerns and herding of earnings forecasts
The Rand Journal of Economics , p. 121 - 144 Posted: 2000
Crossref
D Hong , H Hong , A Ungureanu
Word of mouth and gradual information diffusion in asset markets Posted: 2010
Y Huang , M Pagano , U Panizza
Local Crowding-Out in China
The Journal of Finance , volume 75 , p. 2855 - 2898 Posted: 2020
Crossref
A R Jackson
Trade generation, reputation, and sell-side analysts
Journal of Finance , volume 60 , p. 673 - 717 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,333
RANK
43,338
54 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies