Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Compensation Expense, Cash Flows and Inflated Valuations

28 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2020 Last revised: 12 May 2020

Sanjeev Bhojraj

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Date Written: December 12, 2019

Abstract

This paper reviews the statement of cash flow implications of stock compensation expense and the effect it can have on valuations. The paper suggests that treating stock compensation as a non-cash item in the statement of cash flows can be misleading from internal decision making and external valuation perspectives. This is important given the increasing role of non-GAAP cash flow disclosures in financial reporting as well as their use internally by managers. It quantifies the potential size of the problem and suggests potential solutions including treating stock compensation expense as an operating cash outflow and a financing cash inflow and/or adding further descriptive disclosures to the financial statements. Finally, the paper also highlights a similar issue that occurs with the cash flow implications of finance leases.

Keywords: stock compensation, non-GAAP disclosures, Free cash flow, overvaluation

JEL Classification: M41, G02,G14,G11

Suggested Citation:

Bhojraj, Sanjeev, Stock Compensation Expense, Cash Flows and Inflated Valuations (December 12, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3503684 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3503684
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Katharine Adame , Jennifer Lynch Koski , Katie Lem , Sarah E. McVay
Free Cash Flow Disclosure in Earnings Announcements
Pages: 44 Posted: 9 Mar 2018 Last revised: 17 Jul 2023
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Clifford S Asness
Stock Options and the Lying Liars Who Don't Want to Expense Them
Financial Analysts Journal; Charlottesville , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 9 - 14 Posted: 2004
Crossref
D E Black , T E Christensen
Policy Implications of Research on Non-GAAP Reporting
Research in Accounting Regulation , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 7 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Bodie , Robert S Zvi , Robert C Kaplan , Merton
For the Last Time: Stock Options Are an Expense
Harvard Business Review , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 62 - 71 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,551
RANK
16,395
5 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies