Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Protecting Wall Street or Main Street: SEC Monitoring and Enforcement of Retail-Owned Firms

Review of Accounting Studies

59 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2020 Last revised: 7 Dec 2022

Michael Iselin

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Department of Accounting

Bret A. Johnson

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Jacob Ott

Purdue University - Daniels School of Business

Jacob Raleigh

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 7, 2022

Abstract

This study examines whether retail ownership of a firm is associated with the likelihood that the firm is subject to monitoring and enforcement by the two largest divisions of the SEC. Monitoring is a form of ex-ante or preventative regulatory oversight, while enforcement is a form of ex-post or punitive oversight. We find a negative association between retail ownership and SEC monitoring. In contrast, we find a positive association between retail ownership and SEC enforcement. These results suggest that the SEC is less likely to monitor firms with high retail ownership, potentially leaving current retail investors more vulnerable to unresolved financial reporting issues. Additionally, the SEC is more likely to issue enforcement actions against firms with high retail ownership, imposing costs on current retail investors when the firm is accused of egregious cases of perceived financial misreporting.

Keywords: SEC monitoring, SEC enforcement, retail investors, comment letters, AAERs

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Iselin, Michael and Johnson, Bret A. and Ott, Jacob and Raleigh, Jacob, Protecting Wall Street or Main Street: SEC Monitoring and Enforcement of Retail-Owned Firms (December 7, 2022). Review of Accounting Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3503081 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3503081
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
S Asthana , S Balsam , S Sankaraguruswamy
Differential response of small versus large investors to 10-K filings on EDGAR , volume 79 , p. 571 - 589 Posted: 2004
B M Barber , T Odean
All that glitters: the effect of attention and news on the buying behavior of individual and institutional investors
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 785 - 818 Posted: 2008
G S Becker
Crime and punishment: an economic approach
The Economic Dimensions of Crime , p. 13 - 68 Posted: 1968
M D Beneish
Detecting GAAP violation: implications for assessing earnings management among firms with extreme financial performance
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 271 - 309 Posted: 1997
Load more
4 Citations
Lauren M. Cunningham , Jacob Justus Leidner
The SEC Filing Review Process: A Survey and Future Research Opportunities
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · Posted: 16 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 3 Nov 2021 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lauren M. Cunningham , Jacob J. Leidner
The SEC Filing Review Process: A Survey and Future Research Opportunities*
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 1653 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Lorien Stice-Lawrence
SEC Attention, A to Z
59 Pages · Posted: 22 Nov 2019 · Last revised: 1 Jul 2025 · Downloads: 820
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
James Blann , Phillip T. Lamoreaux
Economic Implications of SEC Investigations: Evidence From M&A Transactions
56 Pages · Posted: 2 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 334
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,336
RANK
248,977
4 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies