Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Application of Lev and Schwartz Compensation Model on the Accounting Practices of MCF Limited

International Journal of Scientific & Technology Research, August, 2019, Vol. 8, No. 8, pp.355-360.

Posted: 3 Jan 2020

Vishal Samartha

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Rajesha Mathukutti

Kingdom University

Iqbal Thonse Hawaldar

Kingdom University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Lolita Jane Dsouza

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 16, 2019

Abstract

In this competitive world, the efficiency of the labour force determines the competency of the organi stations , which indicates that human beings are the greatest asset for any firm. This paper attempts to examine the applicability of human resource accounting and to measure the HRV of one of the largest chemical manufacturing company of India. The study conducted for a period of three years beginning from 2013 to 2015 . Lev and Schwartz compensation model was used to calculate the worth of the workforce at a specified discount rate corresponding to the company . Employee’s age, remuneration, education, experience, job performance, cost of living, financial condition and the promotion policy of the firm, are the factors which affect the calculation of employee’s worth. The result of the study indicates that employee demographics and human resource values are significantly correlated. The research also advocates the need for an efficient model which could facilitate measuring the intellectual capital at its true potential.

Keywords: Human resource accounting; Lev and Schwartz model; Human resource value; Human Capital

Suggested Citation:

Samartha, Vishal and Mathukutti, Rajesha and Hawaldar, Iqbal Thonse and Dsouza, Lolita Jane, Application of Lev and Schwartz Compensation Model on the Accounting Practices of MCF Limited (August 16, 2019). International Journal of Scientific & Technology Research, August, 2019, Vol. 8, No. 8, pp.355-360. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3504509
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,078
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies