Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Risk Aversion of Accountants Matter? Female Rank-and-File Accounting Employees and Internal Control Quality

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2020 Last revised: 16 Mar 2024

Chuchu Liang

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

Ben Lourie

University of California, Irvine

Alex Nekrasov

University of Illinois Chicago

Date Written: March 4, 2024

Abstract

Using novel data on corporate accounting employees, we find that the risk aversion of rank-and-file accounting employees, proxied by the proportion of female accountants, is negatively associated with the likelihood of internal control weaknesses. The results are incremental to controlling for other accounting employee characteristics, such as experience and quality, which are also associated with fewer internal control weaknesses. In contrast, female non-accounting employees explain operating risk and not internal control risk. We mitigate endogeneity concerns by using an entropy balanced sample and an instrumental variable approach that exploits variation in the external supply of female accountants. Our study is among the first to provide large-sample archival evidence that characteristics of accounting employees matter to financial reporting and how these effects differ from non-accounting employees.

Keywords: accounting employees, risk aversion, female employees, internal control quality

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Liang, Chuchu and Lourie, Ben and Nekrasov, Alexander, Does the Risk Aversion of Accountants Matter? Female Rank-and-File Accounting Employees and Internal Control Quality (March 4, 2024). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3504465 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3504465
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
An empirical analysis of CEO risk aversion and the propensity to smooth earnings volatility
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 201 - 235 Posted: 2007
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
R B Adams , P Funk
Beyond the glass ceiling: Does gender matter?
Management Science , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 219 - 235 Posted: 2012
B K Adhikari , A Agrawal , J Malm
Do women managers keep firms out of trouble? Evidence from corporate litigation and policies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 202 - 225 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
416
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,584
RANK
161,184
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies