Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Insider Trading on the Market Price of Securities: Some Evidence from Recent Cases of Unlawful Trading

44 J. Corp. L. 65 (2018)

38 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2020 Last revised: 29 Jan 2025

David Rosenfeld

Northern Illinois University - College of Law

Date Written: November 28, 2018

Abstract

The government’s recent crackdown on insider trading has revived an old debate about the wisdom of insider trading prohibitions. Opponents of insider trading laws often argue that insider trading contributes to market efficiency because it brings information to the market which gets incorporated into the price of the security, leading to more accurate pricing in a more timely fashion. Although this argument is intuitively appealing and has some empirical support, a look at some recent cases of known insider trading reveals situations where the market fails to detect the presence of informed traders, and even instances where the stock price moves in the contrary direction. This indicates that insider trading does not always bring information to the market, which undermines what is perhaps the most cogent argument for ending insider trading prohibitions.

Keywords: insider trading

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Rosenfeld, David, The Impact of Insider Trading on the Market Price of Securities: Some Evidence from Recent Cases of Unlawful Trading (November 28, 2018). 44 J. Corp. L. 65 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3504890
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
581
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,024
RANK
107,499
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies