Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Linking Executive Compensation to Retained Earnings – A Study of German Savings Banks

29 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2020

Daniel Blochinger

Ulm University - Institute of Economics

Date Written: December 16, 2019

Abstract

Performance linked compensation for executives can incentivize effort and commitment but can also induce increased risk taking. The German savings bank associations RSGV and SVWL recommend their members to make executive compensation increase both in performance and in the stock of retained earnings. We use a unique public data set to analyze the relationships of retained earnings, executive compensation, risk and state level savings bank laws in German savings banks. We find that the recommendation of RSGV and SVWL provides a good fit to compensation data. However, we find a marginally significant negative relationship of equity ratios and executive compensation, which is especially strong for members of RSGV and SVWL. This is the opposite of what the recommendation suggests. Finally, we identify several properties of state level savings bank laws as further determinants of equity ratios.

Keywords: savings banks, executive board compensation, variable compensation, equity, risk taking

JEL Classification: M12, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Blochinger, Daniel, Linking Executive Compensation to Retained Earnings – A Study of German Savings Banks (December 16, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3504746 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3504746
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Anat R. Admati , Peter M. DeMarzo , Martin F. Hellwig , Paul C. Pfleiderer
Fallacies, Irrelevant Facts, and Myths in the Discussion of Capital Regulation: Why Bank Equity is Not Socially Expensive
Max Planck Institute for Research on Collective Goods 2013/23, Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 161, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 13-7 Pages: 77 Posted: 4 Nov 2013 Last revised: 12 Jan 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Anclam-Rühle
Finanzielle Anreizsysteme in Sparkassen unter besonderer Berücksichtigung der Verbundproblematik Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover , S Sunder
Earnings management and the revelation principle
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , issue 1-2 , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 1998
P Bolton , H Mehran , J Shapiro
Executive compensation and risk taking
Review of Finance , volume 19 , issue 6 , p. 2139 - 2181 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
774
RANK
658,366
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Macroeconomics & Monetary Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies