Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Audit Quality

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Columbia Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

71 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2020 Last revised: 8 Dec 2020

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Suraj Srinivasan

Harvard Business School

Xin Zheng

University of British Columbia, Sauder School of Business, Students

Date Written: December 7, 2020

Abstract

In this paper, we document 45 specific allegations related to audit deficiencies based on GAAS, as detailed in 141 AAERs and 153 securities class action lawsuits over the violation years 1978–2016. Next, we use these allegations to validate existing popular proxies of audit quality. Of all the audit quality proxies, we find that restatements consistently predict all of the top six most cited audit deficiencies. The ratio of audit fees to total fees and the presence of a city specialist auditor predict five of the most cited deficiencies. Overall, our results suggest that the predictive power of audit quality proxies depends on (i) the settings that researchers are interested in; and (ii) the specific audit deficiencies hypothesized to matter in the investigated setting. For instance, future studies related to auditor independence might consider using restatements and the ratio of audit fees to total fees as proxies of audit quality.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Audit Deficiency, AAER, Securities Class Action Lawsuits, Enforcement

JEL Classification: M42, K22, K42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Rajgopal, Shivaram and Srinivasan, Suraj and Zheng, Xin, Measuring Audit Quality (December 7, 2020). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Columbia Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3504037 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3504037
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,653
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,234
RANK
11,837
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies