Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulating Principles of Disclosure of Information to Shareholders under G20/ОECD Principles

5 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2020 Last revised: 23 Nov 2020

Anna Shashkova

MGIMO University

Date Written: September 10, 2020

Abstract

The present research analyses Principles of Corporate Governance G20 OECD in the context of disclosure of information to the specified group of stakeholders – shareholders of a corporation. The analysis of court practice and both positive and negative examples of disclosure of information to shareholders is provided.

The core part of the research is dedicated to the problem of interaction between majority shareholder & minority shareholders or the corporation itself while getting the information with application of British legislation to the matter, systems of “hard” and “soft” law. The author resumes on the necessity of practical application and control of particular recommendations of the Principles of Corporate Governance G20/OECD, i.e. cumulative voting for the board of directors.


Keywords: corporate governance principles, G20, OECD, stakeholder, board of directors

JEL Classification: K230, L320, M1

Suggested Citation:

Shashkova, Anna, Regulating Principles of Disclosure of Information to Shareholders under G20/ОECD Principles (September 10, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3504757 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3504757
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
742
RANK
778,745
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies