Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholders’ Benefit from Bank Representatives on the Board

42 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2020 Last revised: 18 Jan 2022

Sandra Kronenberger

Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz - Gutenberg School of Economics and Management

Katrin Weiskirchner-Merten

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Department of Finance, Accounting & Statistics

Date Written: January 18, 2022

Abstract

We examine how the presence of representatives of a bank on a firm’s board of directors affects the firm’s risk and thus, the shareholder value. Our model uses a company with a debt-financed investment project and a managerial moral hazard problem, where the board determines the risk level. The board’s inability to commit to a specific risk level leads the shareholder representatives on the board to exploit the financial leverage and choose higher risk than is ex ante optimal, resulting in lower shareholder value. By appointing bank representatives—who prefer lower risk—to the board, shareholders of firms with risky debt counteract the excessive risk taking, thereby decreasing the expected managerial compensation and borrowing costs. Unlike previous studies, we illustrate a potential benefit of bank representatives on boards, i.e., increasing shareholder value. Additionally, the model predicts that exogenous increases in the borrowing costs and managerial compensation, which cause a higher potential benefit, can diversely affect the shareholders’ demand for bank representatives.

Keywords: board of directors, bank representative, risk, managerial compensation, borrowing costs

JEL Classification: D82, G32, G34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Kronenberger, Sandra and Weiskirchner-Merten, Katrin, Shareholders’ Benefit from Bank Representatives on the Board (January 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3504573 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3504573
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
947
RANK
687,436
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Motivation & Incentives eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies