Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The impact of executives’ gender, financial incentives, and shareholder pressure on corporate social and ecological investments

Schmalenbach Journal of Business Research, https://www.springer.com/journal/41471

64 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2020 Last revised: 28 Oct 2021

Jochen Theis

University of Southern Denmark

Marvin Nipper

Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg

Date Written: October 27, 2021

Abstract

Archival research suggests that female executives have an impact on corporate decision-making and generally finds positive associations between female board representation and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) performance. However, archival research does not reveal why female executives decide differently in the context of CSR. As this is our starting point, we conduct an experiment and examine executives’ decision-making in terms of CSR investment. While female executives seem to be more oriented towards social and ecological practices, we find strong evidence that participants’ real-world incentive program mainly drives their CSR decision-making. We also examine if selected gender-specific character traits (risk propensity, sustainability attitude, and empathy) cause gender differences in executives’ CSR decision-making. In an exploratory analysis, we furthermore show that executives’ risk propensity affects their CSR decision-making conditional on the level of shareholder pressure they face. Our study contributes to the literature on executives’ decision-making and to the CSR literature by enhancing our understanding of determinants of executives’ CSR decision-making.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Ecological Investments, CSR, Executives’ Decision Making, Gender

JEL Classification: M12, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Theis, Jochen and Nipper, Marvin, The impact of executives’ gender, financial incentives, and shareholder pressure on corporate social and ecological investments (October 27, 2021). Schmalenbach Journal of Business Research, https://www.springer.com/journal/41471, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3505969 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3505969
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
117 References
Robert W Ackerman
The social challenge to business Posted: 1975
Renée B Adams , Patricia Funk
Beyond the glass ceiling: Does gender matter?
Management Science , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 219 - 235 Posted: 2012
Samuel Adomako , Joseph Amankwah-Amoah , Albert Danso , George O Dankwah
CEO Sustainability Orientation and Firm Environmental Performance: Networking and Resource Contingencies
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 2184 - 2193 Posted: 2021
Bradley R Agle , K Ronald , Jeffrey A Mitchell , Sonnenfeld
Who matters to CEOs? An investigation of stakeholder attributes and salience, corporate performance, and CEO values
Academy of Management Journal , volume 42 , issue 5 , p. 507 - 525 Posted: 1999
Load more
1 Citations
Dengjun Zhang , Nirosha Hewa Wellalage , Viviana Fernandez
Environmental Assurance, Gender, and Access to Finance: Evidence from SMEs
International Review of Financial Analysis, Vol. 83, No. Oct, 2022 · 39 Pages · Posted: 29 Aug 2022 · Downloads: 92
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,552
RANK
444,118
1 Citations
117 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies