Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Corporate Governance Structures Predict Firm’s Market Value? Empirical Evidence from Ghana

International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues, 2019, 10(1), 52-58.

7 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2020

Helena Ahulu

University of Professional Studies

John MacCarthy

University of Professional Studies, Accra

Date Written: December 4, 2019

Abstract

This paper examined the effect of corporate governance structures on the market value of firms in Ghana. Quantitative data was collected on thirty one firms listed on the Ghana stock exchange from 2009 to 2018 to predict the effect of corporate governance structures on the firm’s market value. Panel data regression analysis revealed that corporate governance structures accounted for 84.9% of the variation of a firm’s market value for the period. Furthermore, the study revealed a significant relationship between chief executive officer (CEO) duality, non-executive director, board size and firm’s profitability and value. The study concludes that firms should separate CEO position from board chairman position to enhance a firm’s profitability and value.

Keywords: Agency Theory, Board Size, Corporate Governance, Duality, Firms

JEL Classification: G32, G34, O16

Suggested Citation:

Ahulu, Helena and MacCarthy, John, Does Corporate Governance Structures Predict Firm’s Market Value? Empirical Evidence from Ghana (December 4, 2019). International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues, 2019, 10(1), 52-58., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3505869
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A Adewale
Corporate governance: A comparative study of the corporate governance codes of a developing economy with developed economies
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 4 , p. 65 - 77 Posted: 2013
C B Ali
Corporate governance, principal-principal agency conflicts, and disclosure
The Journal of Applied Business Research , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 419 - 432 Posted: 2014
D R Anderson , D T Sweeney , T A Williams
Statistics for Business and Economics Posted: 2009
Crossref
P Angelides , B Thomas
The financial crisis inquiry report: Final report of the national commission on the causes of the financial and economic crisis in the United States
Choice Reviews Online , volume 48 , p. 1 - 663 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
937
RANK
505,214
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies