Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Codetermination on the Audit Committee: An Analysis of Potential Effects on Audit Quality

International Journal of Auditing (forthcoming)

Posted: 23 Dec 2019 Last revised: 2 Nov 2020

Svenja Hillebrandt

University of Hamburg

Nicole V.S. Ratzinger-Sakel

University of Hamburg

Date Written: October 10, 2019

Abstract

This paper empirically investigates the association between codetermination on the audit committee (AC) and audit quality. Using a sample of 655 firm-year observations related to German CDAX companies, our results indicate that the presence of employee representatives on the AC is negatively associated with audit quality. This negative association can also be observed for the percentage of employee representatives serving on the AC. However, our analyses show that the mentioned findings turn insignificant when employee representatives have accounting expertise. In addition, the type of employee representatives seems to influence audit quality differently: our findings turn insignificant for employee representatives who are classified as company outsiders and, thus, expected to be more independent. These findings highlight the importance of accounting expertise and independence for AC members’ monitoring effectiveness. To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first that analyzes the impact of codetermination on the AC on audit quality.

Keywords: codetermination, employee representation, audit committee, audit quality, corporate governance, abnormal accruals

JEL Classification: M42, M48, M54, G3, G39

Suggested Citation:

Hillebrandt, Svenja and Ratzinger-Sakel, Nicole V.S., Codetermination on the Audit Committee: An Analysis of Potential Effects on Audit Quality (October 10, 2019). International Journal of Auditing (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3506821 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3506821
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,027
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies