Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Community Expectations on Corporate Community Involvement Disclosures in the UK

Accounting Forum, Vol.41(3), pp. 234-252, 2017

26 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2020

Kemi C. Yekini

De Montfort University, Leicester Business School

Ismail A. Adelopo

De Montfort University - Leicester Business School

Emmanuel Adegbite

University of Nottingham

Date Written: September 1, 2017

Abstract

Despite increase mistrust between corporations and societies in the aftermath of the global corporate misbehaviours, the literature examining the impact of community concerns on corporate communications is undeveloped. Our paper is timely; it contributes to the literature on corporate social responsibility (CSR) by considering the impacts of community expectations on Corporate Community Involvement Disclosures (CCID) using a ten-year panel study. We advance CSR communication research by providing a fresh theoretical perspective - media-agenda-setting theory - to the broad CSR debate and the CCID subset of this debate. Our findings support the media-agenda theoretical expectation and provide important practice and policy recommendations for improving interactions between corporations and their communities.

Keywords: Community Involvement Disclosures; Community Expectations; Media Agenda-Setting Theory; Panel Study

Suggested Citation:

Yekini, Kemi C. and Adelopo, Ismail A. and Adegbite, Emmanuel, The Impact of Community Expectations on Corporate Community Involvement Disclosures in the UK (September 1, 2017). Accounting Forum, Vol.41(3), pp. 234-252, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3507013 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3507013
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
C A Adams , W Hill , C B Roberts , A A Carol , H Wan-Ying , Clare , B R
Posted: 1998
Corporate Social Reporting Practices in Western Europe: Legitimating Corporate Behaviour?
British Accounting Review , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21
Crossref
E Adegbite , C Nakajima
Corporate governance and responsibility in Nigeria
International Journal of Disclosure and Governance , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 252 - 271 Posted: 2011
Crossref
C R Ader
A longitudinal study of agenda setting for the issue of environmental pollution
Journalism and Mass Communication Quarterly , volume 72 , issue 2 , p. 300 - 311 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Emmanuel Adegbite
Corporate Social Responsibility Strategies in Nigeria: A Tinged Shareholder Model
26 Pages · Posted: 19 May 2020 · Downloads: 105
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
855
RANK
730,194
1 Citations
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies