Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Drives Voluntary Greenhouse Gas Emissions Disclosure?

71 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2020

Jonathan Harris

Total Portfolio Project

Date Written: June 6, 2019

Abstract

Voluntary disclosure should naturally arise in theory but may not in practice due to real-world frictions. This is important as self-selection bias could lead to erroneous results in statistical analyses of the disclosed data. This paper investigates climate-related disclosure in a comprehensive, global panel of publicly listed firms from 2010-2017, studying a diverse set of firm, sector and geographic characteristics, as predictors of voluntary response to the largest standardized climate-related reporting portal. The patterns I uncover demonstrate evidence of strong behavioral factors as well as being consistent with theories of voluntary disclosure which emphasize the role of disclosure costs and verifiability. Unsurprisingly, I find that firm size, sector, and past response quality predict response. The staged introduction of a reporting fee on the portal provides results that are particularly striking, with the small fee being associated with a significant decrease of up to 3% in the response rate of firms reporting non-assured information but with only an insignificant effect on assured reporters. These results have implications for policymakers seeking to make sustainability disclosure an integral part of financial disclosure, as well as for institutional investors seeking to understand the quality of climate-related disclosures.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, greenhouse gas emissions, climate, TCFD, CDP

Suggested Citation:

Harris, Jonathan, What Drives Voluntary Greenhouse Gas Emissions Disclosure? (June 6, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3508437 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3508437
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
* * *
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
776
RANK
350,629
1 Citations
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies