Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Social Responsibility Accounting on the Performance of Selected Companies in Rivers State, Nigeria

Journal of Social and Policy Research Centre for Development Strategies in Africa Studies,Vol 8 No1 June 2014, pp.182-200

17 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2020

G.N Ogbonna

University of Port Harcourt - Department of Accounting

Friday Ojeaburu

Ignatius Ajuru University of Education; University of Port Harcourt

Akuromaa Basoene Cotterell

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 1, 2014

Abstract

The research work investigated the effects of social responsibility accounting (SRA) on the performance of firms in Rivers State of Nigeria. Three research questions and hypothesis were raised. Chi-square test was adopted for the study with the use of statistical package for social sciences (SPSS) in analyzing the data. The research was conducted using a primary data gotten from well-structured questionnaire. The findings on the profitability of the companies shows that social responsibility accounting can improve on the profitability of companies by increasing the company’s return on equity (ROE), earnings per share (EPS), return on capital employed (ROCE) and also its return on investment (ROI). Corporate social responsibility accounting can also lead to the maximization of shareholders wealth by positively affecting the long term stability of the company. Social responsibility accounting is a tool for share price maximization and it also improves the company’s return of capital. It is concluded that, it can improve the goodwill of company by providing conducive working environment for job satisfaction and job security. It plays a major role in youth development which in turn reduces menace in the society, social responsibility accounting contributes to infrastructural development with the provision of health care facilities, water, quality education and social security; it also enhances the relationship between company and their host communities. The researcher recommended that firms should liaise with community authorities to identify areas or opportunity available to them to better the lives of the people through the provision of social amenities. Firms should intensify efforts to educate the public on their primary responsibility, various commitment to other stakeholders and operational/financial limitations, further studies should be conducted to establish the value in monetary terms as to how much CSRs contributes to the organization’s profitability and to the degree at which CSR programmes have impacted on the society and its corresponding value generation for the company.

Keywords: social responsibility accounting, environment accounting, sustainable development, Nigeria

Suggested Citation:

Ogbonna, G.N and Ojeaburu, Friday and Cotterell, Akuromaa Basoene, Effect of Social Responsibility Accounting on the Performance of Selected Companies in Rivers State, Nigeria (June 1, 2014). Journal of Social and Policy Research Centre for Development Strategies in Africa Studies,Vol 8 No1 June 2014, pp.182-200, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3508151
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
C A Adams , G R Frost
Managing social and environmental performance: Do companies have adequate information?
Australian Accounting Review , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 2 - 11 Posted: 2007
Crossref
D M Baridam
Research Methods in Administrative Science Posted: 2001
&amp; Barnea , Rubin
Corporate social responsibility as a conflict between owners working paper march 2 Posted: 2005
Leonardo Becchetti , Rocco Ciciretti , Iftekhar Hasan
Corporate Social Responsibility and Shareholder's Value: An Event Study Analysis
FRB of Atlanta Working Paper No. 2007-6, Bank of Finland Research Discussion Paper No. 1/2009 Pages: 53 Posted: 6 Sep 2006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
747
RANK
534,717
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies