Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Signaling Theory of Lockups in Mergers

Wake Forest Law Review 47, pp. 45-69 (2012)

25 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2020

Shmuel Leshem

Independent Researcher

Date Written: April 1, 2012

Abstract

Empirical evidence shows that termination fees (“lockups”) in merger agreements of public companies discourage competition for the target company but do not necessarily harm target shareholders. This Article presents a signaling theory consistent with this evidence and considers the theory’s normative implications. The chief argument is that the presence of a lockup in an agreement signals the acquirer’s high valuation of the target, and this discourages other potential acquirers from competing. By increasing the deal price in exchange for the inclusion of a lockup in the agreement and thereby restricting competition, a target company and a high-valuing acquirer are able to divide between them the surplus that results from avoiding the transaction costs of a bidding contest. Building on that analysis, this Article shows that although lockups increase target shareholder wealth, they may nevertheless be socially undesirable.

Keywords: mergers, acquisitions, termination fees, signaling

JEL Classification: G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Leshem, Shmuel, A Signaling Theory of Lockups in Mergers (April 1, 2012). Wake Forest Law Review 47, pp. 45-69 (2012), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3508786
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
651
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies