Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure of Accounting Ratios and Firm-Specific Characteristics: The Case of GCC

Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting Volume 18 Issue 2 2020

45 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2020 Last revised: 15 Jun 2022

Ayman E. Haddad

American University of Kuwait

Fatima Baalbaki Shibly

The American University of Kuwait - College of Business & Economics

Ruwaidah Haddad

Yarmouk University

Date Written: January 10, 2020

Abstract

This study investigates the voluntary disclosure of accounting ratios in the corporate annual reports of manufacturing firms in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) and determines whether an association exists between voluntary disclosure and firm-specific characteristics namely, size, profitability, leverage, liquidity and efficiency.

A sample of 53 GCC listed manufacturing firms and 263 firm-year observations were observed over the period 2011 to 2015. A count data regression (Poisson) with incident rate ratios (IRR) was used to identify the relationship between firms’ voluntary disclosures of accounting ratios and other firm-specific characteristics.

During the period under review, the voluntary disclosure of accounting ratios provided in annual reports of GCC firms were found to be exceedingly low. On average, a GCC company discloses at most two accounting ratios in its annual reports. The results also show that the profitability ratios are the most popularly reported ones. Controlling for family board domination, the results also reveal that structure-related variables (firm size and leverage) are positively associated with accounting ratio disclosures. However, performance-related variables (profitability, liquidity and efficiency) have no significant effect on disclosures. We conclude that signaling theory as implied in the performance-related variables is not strongly supported in the GCC region.

This is the first known study to investigate the disclosure of accounting ratios and its determinants within the context of GCC. The findings of this study could be beneficial to both agents and principals in assessing the associated risks. The study provides regulators and market participants an understanding of the corporate reporting activities of manufacturing firms in the GCC and who accordingly will be able to consider associated policy implementation.

Keywords: Financial Ratio, Disclosure, GCC, firm-specific characteristics, Corporate Reporting

JEL Classification: G10, M41, M14, G14, G30, G22

Suggested Citation:

Haddad, Ayman E. and Baalbaki Shibly, Fatima and Haddad, Ruwaidah, Voluntary Disclosure of Accounting Ratios and Firm-Specific Characteristics: The Case of GCC (January 10, 2020). Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting Volume 18 Issue 2 2020 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3508255
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
A Abdullah , K N I K Ismail
Disclosure of voluntary accounting ratios by Malaysian listed companies
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2008
Agyei-Mensah
The determinants of financial ratio disclosure and quality: Evidence from an emerging market
International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 188 - 211 Posted: 2015
W Ali , J G Frynas , Z Mahmood
Determinants of corporate social responsibility (CSR) disclosure in developed and developing countries: A literature review
Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental Management , volume 24 , p. 273 - 294 Posted: 2017
K Ahmed
Disclosure policy choice and corporate characteristics: A study of Bangladesh
Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 183 - 203 Posted: 1996
Load more
1 Citations
Ayman E. Haddad , Hussain Alai
Risk Disclosure and Financial Performance: The Case of Islamic and Conventional Banks in the GCC
Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business Research, NO: 10.1108/JIABR-11-2020-0343 · 19 Pages · Posted: 24 Sep 2021 · Last revised: 16 Jun 2022 · Downloads: 59
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
924
RANK
805,600
1 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies