Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Institutional Ownership and Individual Ownership on Dividend Policy of Listed Plantation Companies in Sri Lanka

Balagobei, S. (2017). Impact of Institutional Ownership and Individual Ownership on Dividend Policy of Listed Plantation Companies in Sri Lanka. Asia Pacific Journal of Advanced Business and Social Studies, 3(1), 329-335.

7 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2020

Saseela Balagobei

University of Jaffna

Date Written: December 27, 2017

Abstract

Ownership structure is one of the main dimensions of corporate governance. The aim of this study is to examine the impact of institutional ownership and individual ownership on dividend policy of listed plantation companies in Sri Lanka. Fifteen listed plantation companies were selected as a sample by using random sample method and secondary data was collected from the annual report of listed plantation companies in Sri Lanka during the period of 2010-2014. This study considers institutional ownership and individual ownership as independent variables and dividend policy as dependent variable which is measured by dividend payout ratio. For the purpose of analysis, multiple regressions and Pearson’s correlation analysis were performed. The results reveal that institutional ownership and individual ownership have no impact on dividend policy.

Keywords: Dividend Policy, Individual Ownership, Institutional Ownership

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Balagobei, Saseela, Impact of Institutional Ownership and Individual Ownership on Dividend Policy of Listed Plantation Companies in Sri Lanka (December 27, 2017). Balagobei, S. (2017). Impact of Institutional Ownership and Individual Ownership on Dividend Policy of Listed Plantation Companies in Sri Lanka. Asia Pacific Journal of Advanced Business and Social Studies, 3(1), 329-335., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3510131
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
M Al-Nawaisel
The relationship between ownership structure and dividend payout Policy of Jordanian industry listed in ASE , volume 5 Posted: 2013
F Al-Shubiri , G Al-Taleb , A Al-Zouedzoued
The Relationship between Ownership Structure and Dividend Policy , volume 13 Posted: 2012
M Beatrice , Kaunga
The effect of ownership structure on dividend payout of firms listed in the Nairobi securities exchange Posted: 2014
K Jayawardena
The plantation sector in Sri Lanka: Recent changes in the welfare of children and women
World Development , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 317 - 328 Posted: 1984
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
950
RANK
327,219
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies