Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Firm Characteristics Affect Dividend Policy: An Empirical Study of Listed Beverage Food and Tobacco Companies in Sri Lanka

Balagobei, S. (2013). How Firm characteristics affect Dividend Policy: An Empirical Study of Listed Beverage Food and Tobacco Companies in Sri Lanka. South Asian Journal of Marketing & Management Research, 3(4), 52-61.

10 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2020

Saseela Balagobei

University of Jaffna

Date Written: April 27, 2013

Abstract

Dividend policy remains one of the most controversial issues in corporate finance. For more than half a century, financial economists have engaged in modeling and examining corporate dividend policy. This research aims to examine the firm’s characteristics which affect dividend policy for listed Beverage food and Tobacco companies in Sri Lanka. In particular, the research investigates the extent to which firm’s characteristics such as firm size, profitability; leverage and tangibility affect corporate dividend policy for the period from 2008 to 2011. Pearson’s correlation and multiple regression models are used to analyze the data. Based on the sample of 10 listed Beverage food and Tobacco companies, it is found that some of the firm characteristics have influenced more on the dividend policy decision among listed Beverage food and Tobacco companies in Sri Lanka. The results reveal that firm size and profitability have the positive impact on dividend policy. Further Leverage has the negative impact on dividend policy.

Keywords: Dividend Policy, Firm Size, Profitability, Leverage, Tangibility

Suggested Citation:

Balagobei, Saseela, How Firm Characteristics Affect Dividend Policy: An Empirical Study of Listed Beverage Food and Tobacco Companies in Sri Lanka (April 27, 2013). Balagobei, S. (2013). How Firm characteristics affect Dividend Policy: An Empirical Study of Listed Beverage Food and Tobacco Companies in Sri Lanka. South Asian Journal of Marketing & Management Research, 3(4), 52-61. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3510200
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
C Adaoglu
Instability in the Dividend Policy of the Istanbul Stock Exchange (ISE) Corporations: Evidence from an Emerging Market
Emerging Markets Review , volume 1 , p. 252 - 270 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Agrawal , N Jayaraman
The Dividend Policies of All-equity Firms: A Direct Test of the Free Cash Flow Theory
Managerial and Decision Economics , volume 15 , p. 139 - 148 Posted: 1994
Crossref
V Aivazian , L Booth , S Cleary
Do Emerging Market Firms Follow Different Dividend Policies from U.S. Firms?
The Journal of Financial Research , volume 26 , p. 371 - 87 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B Al-Najjar , K Hussainey
The Association between Dividend Payout and Outside Directorships
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 4 - 19 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
647
RANK
601,090
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies