Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting Regulation

29 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2020

Hui Wen

Liaoning University - LI Anmin Advanced Institute of Finance and Economics

George Deltas

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Economics

Date Written: December 27, 2019

Abstract

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has steadily grown in importance. We show government regulation on corporate reporting of CSR, aimed to spur its growth and increase transparency of its extent at the firm level, has grown in tandem. Such reporting regulation more readily observable than CSR activity itself and can be used as a proxy for the latter at the country level, and also as an indication of a country’s interest in promoting CSR. We show that larger economies find it easier to institute such regulations, and that international influences and local concerns from increases in pollution levels are important contributing factors. We provide evidence that such regulation also tends to increase CSR reports, even after accounting for the possibility that common unobserved factors affect both reporting requirements and CSR activity.

Keywords: Self-Regulation, Environmental Consciousness

JEL Classification: M14, Q56, F64, K32

Suggested Citation:

Wen, Hui and Deltas, George, Global Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting Regulation (December 27, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3510187 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3510187
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
T W Anderson , H Rubin
Estimator of the Parameters of a Single equation in a Complete System of Stochastic Equations
Annals of Mathematical Statistics , volume 20 , p. 46 - 63 Posted: 1949
Crossref
P A Bekker
Alternative Approximations to the Distributions of Instrumental Variable Estimators
Econometrica , volume 62 , p. 657 - 681 Posted: 1994
Crossref
W Breuer , T Muller , D Rosenbach , A Salzmann
Corporate Social Responsibility, Investor Protection, and Cost of Equity: A Cross-Country Comparison
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 96 , p. 34 - 55 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Hans Bonde Christensen , Luzi Hail , Christian Leuz
Economic Analysis of Widespread Adoption of CSR and Sustainability Reporting Standards: Structured Overview of CSR Literature
Pages: 117 Posted: 14 Jan 2019 Last revised: 27 Jan 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
1 Citations
George Deltas , Hui Wen
Do Reporting Requirements Encourage Voluntary Activities or Do Voluntary Activities Lead to Reporting Requirements? Evidence from CSR
9 Pages · Posted: 2 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 79
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,152
RANK
572,087
1 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies