Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Policy and Shareholders' Wealth of Listed Manufacturing Companies in Sri Lanka

Balagobei, S., & Selvaratnam, P. (2015). Dividend Policy and Shareholders' Wealth of Listed Manufacturing Companies in Sri Lanka. Journal of Economics and Sustainable Development. 6 (19), 33-38.

6 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2020

Saseela Balagobei

University of Jaffna

Date Written: December 27, 2015

Abstract

In finance, over the years impact of a firm’s dividend policy on shareholders’ wealth is an unresolved issue. The main issue of debate revolves around the optimal Dividend payout which is maximizing the Shareholders’ wealth of investors. The country’s manufacturing sector is enjoying a stronger pace in earnings growth post war in Sri Lanka. Therefore the necessity of manufacturing sector is realized for the country’s economical development. This study aims to investigate the impact of dividend policy on shareholders’ wealth of listed manufacturing companies in Sri Lanka. The common approach in empirical studies has been to examine the relationship between dividend policy and shareholders’ wealth. The sample of this study composed of twelve listed Manufacturing companies in Sri Lanka and period of five years from 2008 to 2012. The required data and information for the study were gathered from published annual reports and hand book of listed companies in CSE. The correlation and regression analysis were used for data analysis. The result of this study reveals that there is a significant relationship between the dividend policy and shareholders’ wealth and further dividend per share has a significant impact on shareholders’ wealth of listed manufacturing companies in Sri Lanka.

Keywords: Dividend policy, Shareholders’ wealth, Dividend per share

Suggested Citation:

Balagobei, Saseela, Dividend Policy and Shareholders' Wealth of Listed Manufacturing Companies in Sri Lanka (December 27, 2015). Balagobei, S., & Selvaratnam, P. (2015). Dividend Policy and Shareholders' Wealth of Listed Manufacturing Companies in Sri Lanka. Journal of Economics and Sustainable Development. 6 (19), 33-38., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3510154
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
M References Anand
Factors Influencing Dividend Policy Decisions of Corporate India
The ICFAI Journal of APPLIED FINANCE , volume 10 , issue 2 Posted: 2004
P Asquith , D Mullin
The Impact of Initiating Dividend Payments on Shareholders' Wealth
The Journal of Business , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 77 - 86 Posted: 1983-01
Crossref
R Azhagaiah , S Priya
The Impact of Dividend Policy on Shareholders
International Research Journal of Finance and Economics Posted: 2008
H Baker , Kent , G E Farrelly , R B Edelman
A Survey of Management Views on Dividend Policy
Financial Management , volume 14 , p. 78 - 84 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
466
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,806
RANK
141,185
1 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies