Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Performance of Licensed Commercial Banks in Sri Lanka

Asian Journal of Finance & Accounting, Vol. 10, No. 2, 2018

9 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2020

Saseela Balagobei

University of Jaffna

Saratha Anandasayanan

University of Jaffna

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is a business approach that contributes to sustainable development by delivering economic, social and environmental benefits for all stakeholders. This concept has emerged over the past thirty years to occupy a significant role in certain aspects of the organizational theory. The purpose of this study is to examine the impact of CSR on firm performance from a developing country’s environment. This study considered only 12 licensed commercial banks as sample and obtained secondary data from the financial statements of the licensed commercial banks in Sri Lanka for the period of 2012-2016. Consequently, the quantitative data were employed in the panel data regression model using E-Views software to scientifically analyse the data to identify the significant relationship between these two variables. The control variable is firm size, to be consistent with the previous studies in the literature review. The finding shows that there is no significant impact of social, economic and environmental variables on firm performance. Further the results reveal that there is a significant positive association between CSR and firm performance (ROA) whereas firm size has a negative association with firm performance (Tobin’s Q). The study illustrates and provides some insights and builds on the literature in the area of CSR in a developing country’s environment.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Firm Performance, Firm Size

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Balagobei, Saseela and Anandasayanan, Saratha, Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Performance of Licensed Commercial Banks in Sri Lanka (2018). Asian Journal of Finance & Accounting, Vol. 10, No. 2, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3510191
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Y A Babalola
The impact of corporate social responsibility on firms' profitability in Nigeria
Finance and Administrative Sciences , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 39 - 50 Posted: 2012
M Branco , Rodrigues
Corporate social responsibility and resource-based
Journal of Business Ethic , p. 111 - 132 Posted: 2006
Crossref
O Erhemjamts , Q Li , A Venkateswaran
Corporate Social responsibility and its impact on firms investment policy, organizational structure, and performance Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,154
RANK
322,813
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies