Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Ownership Structure on Dividend Payout Policy: An Empirical Study on Listed Plantation Companies in Sri Lanka

Balagobei, S., & Thiruchchenthurnathan, T. (2016). Impact of Ownership Structure on Dividend Payout Policy: An Empirical Study on Listed Plantation Companies in Sri Lanka. Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , 7(14), 93-98.

6 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2020

Saseela Balagobei

University of Jaffna

Thiviya Thiruchchenthurnathan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 27, 2016

Abstract

Ownership structure is one of the main dimensions of corporate governance. The aim of the study is to examine the impact of ownership structure on dividend payout policy of listed plantation companies in Sri Lanka. Fifteen listed plantation companies were selected as sample by using random sample method and secondary data was collected from the annual report of listed plantation companies in Sri Lanka during the period of 2010-2014. This study considers the ownership structure as independent variable which is measured by individual ownership structure, institutional ownership structure and foreign ownership structure and dividend payout policy as dependent variable which is measured by dividend payout ratio. For the purpose of analysis multiple regressions and Pearson’s correlation analysis were performed. The results reveal that foreign ownership structure has a significant impact on dividend payout policy. The study also found that foreign ownership structure is positive significantly correlated with dividend payout policy of listed plantation companies. Further individual ownership structure and institutional ownership structure are not significantly correlated with dividend payout policy.

Higher the foreign ownership structure in listed plantation companies, the higher the dividend payout which is preferable for investors and it improves the dividends.

Keywords: Individual ownership structure, Institutional ownership structure, Foreign ownership structure, Dividend payout policy

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Balagobei, Saseela and Thiruchchenthurnathan, Thiviya, Impact of Ownership Structure on Dividend Payout Policy: An Empirical Study on Listed Plantation Companies in Sri Lanka (December 27, 2016). Balagobei, S., & Thiruchchenthurnathan, T. (2016). Impact of Ownership Structure on Dividend Payout Policy: An Empirical Study on Listed Plantation Companies in Sri Lanka. Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , 7(14), 93-98., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3510139
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
F Al-Shubiri , G Al-Taleb , A Al-Zoued
The Relationship between Ownership Structure and Dividend Policy: An Empirical Investigation
Review of International Comparative Management , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 644 - 657 Posted: 2012
M Amidu , J Abor
Determinants of Dividend Payout Ratios in Ghana
Journal of RisK Finance , volume 7 , p. 136 - 181 Posted: 2006
Crossref
B Al-Najjar , E Kilincarslan
The effect of ownership structure on dividend policy: evidence from Turkey , volume 16 , p. 135 - 161 Posted: 2016
Crossref
M Beatrice , Kaunga
The effect of ownership structure on dividend payout of firms listed in the Nairobi securities exchange Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,143
RANK
278,438
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies