Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Performance and Managerial Labor Market

47 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2020 Last revised: 29 Jun 2021

Xin Dai

Drexel University

Feng Gao

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Rutgers Business School at Newark & New Brunswick

Ling Lei Lisic

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Ivy Zhang

University of California, Riverside

Date Written: June 28, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of a firm’s social performance on the CEO’s employment prospects. We find that CEOs are more (less) likely to leave office when there is a significant recent decline (improvement) in social performance. We then track departing CEOs’ subsequent employment records and find that the social performance of their previous employers improves their labor market outcomes. These CEOs are more likely to find a new executive position, move up to a larger public firm, and receive higher compensation from the new public firm. Using a Cox proportional hazard model, we find that the strong social performance of the previous employer helps CEOs find their next executive positions sooner. Overall, our results suggest that corporate social performance enhances CEOs’ labor market potentials.

Keywords: Managerial labor market, Corporate social responsibility (CSR), Environmental, social, and governance (ESG), CEO turnover

Suggested Citation:

Dai, Xin and Gao, Feng and Lisic, Ling Lei and Zhang, Ivy, Corporate Social Performance and Managerial Labor Market (June 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3510664 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3510664
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
R Albuquerque , A Durnev , Y Koskinen
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence. Working paper Posted: 2014
Crossref
T Besley , M Ghatak
Reforming public service delivery
Journal of African Economics , volume 16 , p. 127 - 156 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A A Cannella , D R Fraser , D S Lee
Firm failure and managerial labor markets evidence from Texas banking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 185 - 210 Posted: 1995
Crossref
G Cespa , G Cestone
Corporate social responsibility and managerial entrenchment
Journal of Economics &management strategy , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 741 - 771 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
504
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,274
RANK
128,423
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies