Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Audit Committee on Organizational Performance of Listed Hotels and Travels in Sri Lanka

Balagobei, S. (2018). Impact of Audit Committee on Organizational Performance of Listed Hotels and Travels in Sri Lanka. International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting, 8(4), 352-369

18 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2020

Saseela Balagobei

University of Jaffna

Velnampy Thirunavukkarasu

University of Jaffna

Date Written: November 29, 2018

Abstract

The audit committee is one of the key elements in the corporate governance structure that helps to control and monitor management in the organization. The aim of this study is to investigate the impact of audit committee on organizational performance of listed hotels and travels in Sri Lanka. The sample consists of 15 listed hotels and travels in Sri Lanka. In this study, data was collected from secondary sources and hypotheses are examined by using Pearson’s correlation and multiple regression analysis. The results reveal that audit committee attributes such as AC independence, AC experts and AC meetings have a significant impact on organizational performance of listed hotels and travels in Sri Lanka. Further audit committee size is not found to have a significant impact on the organizational performance. The findings could be useful to regulators in other jurisdiction who are looking at ways to enhance the effectiveness of AC, overall firm governance and enhance the organizational performance.

Keywords: Audit Committee, Organizational performance, Audit committee independence, Audit committee experts, Audit committee meetings

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Balagobei, Saseela and Thirunavukkarasu, Velnampy, Impact of Audit Committee on Organizational Performance of Listed Hotels and Travels in Sri Lanka (November 29, 2018). Balagobei, S. (2018). Impact of Audit Committee on Organizational Performance of Listed Hotels and Travels in Sri Lanka. International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting, 8(4), 352-369, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3510126
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
L J Abbott , Y Park , S Parker
The effects of audit committee activity and independence on corporate fraud
Managerial Finance , volume 26 , p. 55 - 67 Posted: 2000
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Prof. Dr. Ahmed Al-Baidhani أ. د. احمد البيضاني
The Role of Audit Committee in Corporate Governance: Descriptive Study
Pages: 25 Posted: 27 Aug 2014 Last revised: 22 Oct 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Al-Mamun , Q R Yasser , M A Rahman
A discussion of the suitability of only one vs more than one theory for depicting corporate governance
Modern Economy , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 48 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
579
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,143
RANK
108,012
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies