Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Board Structure in Banks Really Affect Their Efficiency?

Balagobei, S. (2019). Does Board Structure in Banks Really Affect Their Efficiency? Research Journal of Social Science & Management, 9(1), 55-62.

9 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2020

Saseela Balagobei

University of Jaffna

Date Written: May 1, 2019

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to identify the relationship between board Structure and efficiency of licensed domestic commercial banks in Sri Lanka for the period from 2009 to 2013. This study also examines the impact of board Structure on efficiency of licensed domestic commercial banks in Sri Lanka. In this study, 10 licensed domestic commercial banks are taken as sample for the purpose of data analysis and hypotheses are examined with help of Pearson’s correlation and regression analysis. Secondary data from the annual reports of banks and journals were used for the analysis purpose. The findings show that, smaller board size and greater board independence lead to better efficiency of licensed domestic commercial banks in Sri Lanka. Further, board meeting has a significant impact on efficiency of the licensed domestic commercial banks in SriLanka. This study would hopefully benefit the academicians, researchers, policy-makers and practitioners of Sri Lanka and other similar countries through exploring the impact of board Structure on efficiency.


Keywords: Corporate Governance, Board Structure, Efficiency

Suggested Citation:

Balagobei, Saseela, Does Board Structure in Banks Really Affect Their Efficiency? (May 1, 2019). Balagobei, S. (2019). Does Board Structure in Banks Really Affect Their Efficiency? Research Journal of Social Science & Management, 9(1), 55-62., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3510171
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Board Size is recommended to enhance the efficiency of licensed domestic commercial banks. There are some suggestions for future research. Mainly three independent variables namely Board Size, Board Independence, Board Meetings are used as the measures of corporate governance among numerous variables of corporate governance. Audit Committee Size, Audit committee Independence, Board diversity, No of Audit Committee Meetings, Number of non executive directors can be used in the future researches. And Cost to Income Ratio and Non performing loans are used for measuring the efficiency of licensed domestic commercial banks in SriLanka
the board should be increased, not one third as stated in the code and Small
M A Adnan , H M Rashid , S N Htay , A K Meera
A Panel Data Analysis on the Relationship between Corporate Governance and Bank Efficiency
Journal of Accounting , p. 12 - 27 Posted: 2011
A Cadbury
Report of the Committee on the Financial Aspects of Corporate Governance, Cadbury Report
Focus , volume 1 Posted: 1992
Central Bank of SriLanka Annual Report Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
937
RANK
368,155
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies