Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Influencing the Use of the Balanced Scorecard: Evidence from a Regional Context

Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 7, December 2019

16 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2020

Antonio Costantini

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Department of Management

Stefano Landi

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Department of Management

Michele Bonazzi

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Department of Management

Date Written: December 30, 2019

Abstract

The balanced scorecard (BSC) has received considerable attention, by companies and researchers, for its potentiality in mitigating the limitations of traditional management accounting tools and supporting the strategic management. Despite this interest, there is still little empirical evidence on the levels of BSC implementation and on the contextual factors influencing it. This study explores whether company size and type of industry affect the BSC use. A survey was conducted in a highly productive region, the Northeast Italy, and a quantitative analysis was carried out to assess the statistically significance of the association between size or industry and the BSC use. The results confirm prior studies showing that the BSC use is biased towards larger companies. However, this holds in every industry except in the manufacturing, where also small firms are prone to adopt it. A qualitative analysis integrates these results, highlighting possible motivations of the BSC use (or non-use).

Keywords: balanced scorecard, contingency factors, performance management tools, SME

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Costantini, Antonio and Landi, Stefano and Bonazzi, Michele, Factors Influencing the Use of the Balanced Scorecard: Evidence from a Regional Context (December 30, 2019). Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 7, December 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3511794 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3511794
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
C Ax , T Bjørnenak
Bundling and diffusion of management accounting innovationsthe case of the Balanced Scorecard in Sweden
Management Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 296 - 311 Posted: 2005
Crossref
E A Awadallah , A Allam
Critique of the Balanced Scorecard as a performance measurement tool
International Journal of Business and Social Science , volume 6 , issue 7 , p. 91 - 99 Posted: 2015
R D Banker , G Potter , R G Schroeder
Reporting manufacturing performance measures to workers: an empirical study
Journal of Management Accounting Research , p. 33 - 53 Posted: 1993
G J M Braam , E J Nijssen
Performance effects of using the Balanced Scorecard: A note on the Dutch experience
Long Range Planning , volume 37 , issue 4 , p. 335 - 349 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,524
RANK
311,489
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies