Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Narrative Disclosures in Corporate Annual Report: A Critical Review of Literature

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVIII, No. 2, April 2019, pp. 7-19

Posted: 16 Jan 2020

Lokanath Mishra

Independent

Pralay Kanti Haldar

Independent

Date Written: April 2, 2019

Abstract

Narrative disclosure in corporate annual report is perhaps more useful to the users who lack the tools, expertise and resources needed to garner and interpret exceedingly complex quantitative corporate information. Corporate reporting is no longer limited to only balance sheet and income statement, but also includes a wide range of narrative disclosures relating to the unconventional assets, value drivers and issues of competitive advantages of the new economy business for catering to the needs of various stakeholders. As a result, corporate reports have now become longer and richer in content and context. However, in the absence of any specific format or any agreed conceptual framework or any common policy of what to include and what not, the growth is becoming multidimensional and even seems unbounded, making the narrative parts uncomparable with each other even for technical experts. The present study hence aims to review all the available studies conducted on the various dimensions of narrative accounting practices in India and abroad and find the valuable research gap, which may help to augment future studies in this area.

Suggested Citation:

Mishra, Lokanath and Haldar, Pralay Kanti, Narrative Disclosures in Corporate Annual Report: A Critical Review of Literature (April 2, 2019). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVIII, No. 2, April 2019, pp. 7-19, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3511453
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
559
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies