Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Rights and Capital Structure: Evidence from Derivative Lawsuits

46 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2020

Benedikt Downar

Georg-August-University of Goettingen

Mario Keiling

Technische Universität München (TUM)

Date Written: December 25, 2019

Abstract

We examine how changes in shareholder rights influence firms’ capital structure. We exploit the staggered passage of Universal Demand (UD) laws in 23 US states over a twenty-year period as an exogenous decrease in shareholder rights. UD laws introduced a significant hurdle for shareholders to file a derivative lawsuit on behalf of the firm. Since litigation by shareholders is a major avenue for enforcing shareholder rights, the passage of UD laws reduces investor protection. Using a difference-in-differences design, we find a higher financial leverage for firms incorporated in states which passed a UD law compared to firms incorporated in states that have no UD law. We also find a lower likelihood of equity financing and a higher likelihood of debt financing following the passage of UD laws. For debt financing, we find that firms tend to use loans, instead of bonds, following the passage of a UD law. Examining the underlying mechanism, we find that the shift from equity to debt financing is attributable to a lower stock market liquidity, caused by more severe agency conflicts between shareholders and managers, which arise due to restrictions in shareholder rights.

Keywords: Universal Demand laws, shareholder rights, shareholder litigation, litigation risk, capital structure, financing decisions

Suggested Citation:

Downar, Benedikt and Keiling, Mario, Shareholder Rights and Capital Structure: Evidence from Derivative Lawsuits (December 25, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3511349 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3511349
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
V V Acharya , R P Baghai , K V Subramanian
Wrongful Discharge Laws and Innovation
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 301 - 347 Posted: 2013
Crossref
J S Ang , R A Cole , J W Lin
Agency Costs and Ownership Structure
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Ian Appel
Governance by Litigation
Pages: 53 Posted: 7 Sep 2015 Last revised: 1 Jul 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
D M Autore , I Hutton , D R Peterson , A. Hoffmann Smith
The Effect of Securities Litigation on External Financing
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 27 , p. 231 - 50 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
313
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,830
RANK
221,251
1 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies