Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Record Keeping Practices on Business Performance of Small and Medium Scale Enterprises in Sri Lanka

Balagobei, S. (2019). Impact of Record Keeping Practices on Business Performance of Small and Medium Scale Enterprises in Sri Lanka. International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting, 9(4), 439-451.

13 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2020

Saseela Balagobei

University of Jaffna

Date Written: December 30, 2019

Abstract

Record keeping plays a vital role in development by providing recorded information which is crucial in the strategic formulation of national development policies and plans. The purpose of the study is to examine the influence of record keeping practices on the business performance of small and medium scale enterprises in Sri Lanka. Record keeping practices consists of proper accounting records, preparation of accounting records and accounting records procedures whereas business performance is measured by organizational goal achievement, organizational effectiveness and organizational efficiency records. A structured questionnaire was used to collect the primary data from 75 SMEs which were selected by means of the random sampling technique. The results reveal that record keeping practices have significant positive influence on business performance of Small and medium enterprises in Sri Lanka. It can be recommended that academic institutions and other bodies which are responsible for SMEs should organize training programmes for those operators who do not have the technical know-how in the field of accounting to come to grips with it and also provide some SME-specific accounting guidelines and template forms for capturing accounting practices for the operators to use.

Keywords: Business performance, Organizational effectiveness, Organizational efficiency, Record keeping practices

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Balagobei, Saseela, Impact of Record Keeping Practices on Business Performance of Small and Medium Scale Enterprises in Sri Lanka (December 30, 2019). Balagobei, S. (2019). Impact of Record Keeping Practices on Business Performance of Small and Medium Scale Enterprises in Sri Lanka. International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting, 9(4), 439-451., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3511498
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting , volume 9 , issue 4
Crossref
A W J C References Abeygunasekera , A T Fonseka
Non-compliance with standard accounting practices by small and medium scale enterprises in Sri Lanka Posted: 2012
G O Ademola , O J Samuel , O Ifedolapo
The Roles of Record Keeping In the Survival and Growth of Small Scale Enterprises in Ijumu Local Government Area of Kogi State
Global Journal of Management and Business Research , issue 13 Posted: 2012
A Adurayemi
Financial Record Keeping and Small & Medium Enterprises Performance in Nigeria
International Journal of Social Relevance & Concern , volume 4 , issue 1 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,232
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,592
RANK
15,591
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies