Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Restatements, Litigation, and Implied Cost of Equity

Applied Financial Economics 24 (1), pages 51-71, 2014

38 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2020

Katsiaryna Bardos

Fairfield University

Dev Mishra

University of Saskatchewan - Edwards School of Business

Date Written: January 1, 2014

Abstract

We reexamine the effect of financial restatements on the cost of equity vis-a-vis litigation risk. Specifically, we study the effect of litigation on post-restatement financing costs and whether market anticipates litigation before restatement announcement as evident from its effect on financing costs. While we find that the cost of equity increases subsequent to a financial restatement for all restating firms, the increase is substantially greater for firms facing litigation as a result of the restatement. We also find that investors do not adjust for the cost of equity prior to the announcement of a financial restatement for firms facing post-restatement litigation. Overall, our findings suggest that most of the increase in the cost of equity after restatement is concentrated in sued sub-sample and that the cost of equity is an important channel through, which litigation associated with financial restatement is priced. The economic effect of post-restatement litigation is approximately 259 basis points increase in the firm’s cost of equity.

Keywords: Cost of Equity, Litigation, Financial Restatements, Earnings Forecasts, Analyst Forecasts

JEL Classification: G14, G12, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bardos, Katsiaryna and Mishra, Dev R., Financial Restatements, Litigation, and Implied Cost of Equity (January 1, 2014). Applied Financial Economics 24 (1), pages 51-71, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3512967 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3512967
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
J Burks
Disciplinary measures in response to restatements after Sarbanes-Oxley
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 29 , p. 195 - 225 Posted: 2010
Crossref
K Chalmers , V Naiker , F Navissi
Earnings quality and Rule 10b-5 securities class action lawsuits
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 31 , p. 22 - 43 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J Claus , J Thomas
Equity premia s low as three percent? Evidence from analysts' earnings forecasts for domestic and international stock markets
Journal of Finance , volume 56 , p. 1629 - 1666 Posted: 2001
Crossref
H Desai , C Hogan , M Wilkins
The reputational penalty for aggressive accounting: earnings restatements and management turnover
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , p. 83 - 112 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
907
RANK
702,914
2 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies