Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Attributes, Sustainable Performance, Environmental Performance, and Environmental Reporting: New Insights from Upper Echelons Perspective

Business Strategy and the Environment, June 20, 2019

29 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2020

Yasir Shahab

School of Accounting, Xijing University

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Yugang Chen

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) - School of Business

Farid Ullah

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) - School of International Trade and Economics

Hai-Xia Li

Xijing University - School of Accounting

Zhiwei Ye

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE)

Date Written: May 13, 2019

Abstract

This study examines the impact of CEO attributes on sustainable performance, environmental performance and environmental reporting, which are motivated by institutionally-driven environmental policies, regulations, and management in the context of Chinese listed firms. Using a comprehensive dataset of 2,854 Chinese listed firms over the 2010-2017 period (i.e., making over 16,000 individual firm-year observations), our findings are four-fold. First, our overall findings reveal that CEOs with research background tend to engage more in activities that improve sustainable performance, environmental performance, and environmental reporting compared with those that are not. Second, CEOs with financial expertise are positively linked with increased sustainable performance and environmental reporting. Third, CEOs with foreign exposure are more eager to engage in activities that enhance sustainable and environmental performance than those that are not. Fourth, young CEOs tend to take actions that reduce both sustainable and environmental performance than their older counterparts. We interpret our results within upper echelons theoretical perspective. The results are robust to alternative measures, potential endogeneities and sample selection problems.

Keywords: sustainable performance, environmental performance, environmental reporting, CEO attributes, upper echelons perspectives, China

Suggested Citation:

Shahab, Yasir and Ntim, Collins G. and Chen, Yugang and Ullah, Farid and Li, Hai-Xia and Ye, Zhiwei, CEO Attributes, Sustainable Performance, Environmental Performance, and Environmental Reporting: New Insights from Upper Echelons Perspective (May 13, 2019). Business Strategy and the Environment, June 20, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3512591 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3512591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
R Borghesi , J F Houston , A Naranjo
Corporate socially responsible investments: CEO altruism, reputation, and shareholder interests
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 26 , p. 164 - 181 Posted: 2014
Crossref
N Carter
Environmental governance in China Posted: 2013
Crossref
L Chang , W Li , X Lu
Government engagement, environmental policy, and environmental performance: evidence from the most polluting Chinese listed firms
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 24 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M K Chin , D C Hambrick , L K Treviño
Political ideologies of CEOs: The influence of executives' values on corporate social responsibility
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 58 , p. 197 - 232 Posted: 2013
Load more
4 Citations
John Malagila , Alaa Zalata , Collins G. Ntim , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer
Corporate Governance and Performance in Sports Organisations: The Case of UK Premier Leagues
Malagila, J.K., Zalata, A.M., Ntim, C.G., and Elamer, A.A. (2020). Corporate Governance and Performance in Sports Organisations: The Case of UK Premier Leagues. International Journal of Finance and Economics, Forthcoming. · 31 Pages · Posted: 14 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 238
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Saleh F. A. Khatib , Dewi Fariha Abdullah , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Raed Abueid
Nudging Toward Diversity in the Boardroom: A Systematic Literature Review of Board Diversity of Financial Institutions
Business Strategy and the Environment, 30(2), 985-1002. · 38 Pages · Posted: 25 Nov 2020 · Last revised: 14 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 216
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ruth V. Aguilera , J. Alberto Aragón‐Correa , Valentina Marano , Peter Tashman
The Corporate Governance of Environmental Sustainability: A Review and Proposal for More Integrated Research
Forthcoming at Journal of Management, Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 3760077, · 81 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 834
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Shoaib Aslam , Mohamed Elmagrhi , Collins G. Ntim , Ramiz Ur Rehman
Environmental Management Practices and Financial Performance Using Data Envelopment Analysis in Japan: The Mediating Role of Environmental Performance
Aslam, S., Elmagrhi, M.H., ur Rehman, R., and Ntim, C.G. (2020). ‘Environmental Management Practices and Financial Performance: The Mediating Role of Environmental Performance’, Business Strategy and the Environment, Forthcoming, · 40 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 214
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
468
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,515
RANK
140,836
4 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies