Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Stringent Insider Trading Laws and Institutional Quality on the Cost of Capital

International Review of Financial Analysis, Vol. 60, pp. 127-137, 2018

37 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2020

Frank Kwabi

De Montfort University

Agyenim Boateng

Glasgow Caledonian University

Emmanuel Adegbite

University of Nottingham

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

This paper examines the effects of interaction between stringent insider trading laws, institutional quality and equity portfolio allocation on the cost of capital. Using a dataset drawn from 44 countries over the period from 2001-2015, we find that stringent insider trading laws interact with institutional quality and foreign equity portfolio allocation to reduce the country-level cost of capital. Further analysis from a quasi-natural experiment based on the 2008-2009 global financial crisis suggests that the findings are robust to endogeneity. Our results imply that the enactment of stringent insider trading laws and their interplay with the quality of institutions are not only important to portfolio investment allocation decisions but reduce the country-level cost of capital.

Keywords: Insider trading laws, Cost of capital, Foreign equity allocation, Institutional quality

JEL Classification: G11, G14, F3

Suggested Citation:

Kwabi, Frank and Boateng, Agyenim and Adegbite, Emmanuel, The Impact of Stringent Insider Trading Laws and Institutional Quality on the Cost of Capital (2018). International Review of Financial Analysis, Vol. 60, pp. 127-137, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3512763 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3512763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
***
, volume 86
Crossref
‫ܥ݋ܥ‬ ௜ ௖௧ = ‫ܣ‬ ௖ + ‫ܤ‬ ௧ + ߚܺ ௜ ௖௧ + ߛ‫ܫ‬ ௟ ௧ + ߳ ௜ ௖௧
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
905
RANK
856,579
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies