Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Compensation, Sustainable Compensation Policy, Carbon Performance and Market Value

British Journal of Management, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2020

Faizul Haque

University of Southampton

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Date Written: January 1, 2020

Abstract

We examine the interrelationships among executive compensation, environmental-social-governance-based (ESG) sustainable compensation policy, carbon performance and market value. Using one of the largest datasets to-date, consisting of 4,379 firm-year observations covering a period of 15 years (2002-2016) from 13 industrialised European countries and insights from neo-institutional theory (NIT), our findings are four-fold. First, our results suggest that process-oriented carbon performance is positively associated with market value, whereas actual-carbon performance has no effect on market value. Second, we show that the market value–process-oriented carbon performance nexus is moderated by executive compensation. Third, our results indicate that executive compensation has a positive effect on process-oriented carbon performance, but has no similar effect on actual-carbon performance. Fourth, we show that the process-oriented carbon performance–executive compensation nexus is reinforced for companies that adopt ESG-based sustainable compensation policy. Our results are generally robust to controlling for governance mechanisms, alternative measures/estimations and endogeneities. Overall, our evidence supports legitimisation aspect of NIT and suggests that the market tends to reward firms with superior process-oriented carbon performance instead of undervaluing firms with excessive actual-carbon emissions. This implies that firms appear to use incentive-based mechanisms to symbolically improve their process-oriented carbon performance without substantively improving their actual-carbon performance.

Keywords: Executive compensation, ESG-based sustainable compensation policy, carbon performance and climate change, corporate governance and market value

JEL Classification: G34, M14

Suggested Citation:

Haque, Faizul and Ntim, Collins G., Executive Compensation, Sustainable Compensation Policy, Carbon Performance and Market Value (January 1, 2020). British Journal of Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3512600 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3512600
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
R V Aguilera , D E Rupp , C Williams , J Granapathi
Putting the s back in corporate social responsibility: A multilevel theory of social change in organizations
Academy of Management Review , volume 32 , p. 836 - 863 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R V Aguilera
Corporate governance and director accountability: An institutional comparative perspective
British Journal of Management , volume 16 , p. 39 - 53 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P Akhtar , Z Khan , J G Frynas , Y K Tse , R R Nicholson
Essential micro-foundations for contemporary business operations: Top management tangible competencies, relationship-based business networks and environmental sustainability
British Journal of Management , volume 29 , p. 43 - 62 Posted: 2018
Crossref
M Arellano , S Bond
Some tests of specification for panel data: Monte Carlo evidence and an application to employment equations
Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 , p. 277 - 297 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
John Malagila , Alaa Zalata , Collins G. Ntim , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer
Corporate Governance and Performance in Sports Organisations: The Case of UK Premier Leagues
Malagila, J.K., Zalata, A.M., Ntim, C.G., and Elamer, A.A. (2020). Corporate Governance and Performance in Sports Organisations: The Case of UK Premier Leagues. International Journal of Finance and Economics, Forthcoming. · 31 Pages · Posted: 14 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 238
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Saleh F. A. Khatib , Dewi Fariha Abdullah , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Raed Abueid
Nudging Toward Diversity in the Boardroom: A Systematic Literature Review of Board Diversity of Financial Institutions
Business Strategy and the Environment, 30(2), 985-1002. · 38 Pages · Posted: 25 Nov 2020 · Last revised: 14 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 216
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Shoaib Aslam , Mohamed Elmagrhi , Collins G. Ntim , Ramiz Ur Rehman
Environmental Management Practices and Financial Performance Using Data Envelopment Analysis in Japan: The Mediating Role of Environmental Performance
Aslam, S., Elmagrhi, M.H., ur Rehman, R., and Ntim, C.G. (2020). ‘Environmental Management Practices and Financial Performance: The Mediating Role of Environmental Performance’, Business Strategy and the Environment, Forthcoming, · 40 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 214
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yasir Shahab , Collins G. Ntim , Farid Ullah , Yugang Chen , Zhiwei Ye
CEO Power and Stock Price Crash Risk in China: Do Female Directors’ Critical Mass and Ownership Structure Matter?
Shahab, Y., Ntim, C.G., Ullah, F., Yugang, C., & Ye, Z. (2020). CEO power and stock price crash risk in China: Do female directors’ critical mass and ownership structure matter? International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming., · 57 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 19 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 207
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
605
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,956
RANK
102,108
4 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies