Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Multinational Enterprises on Subsidiaries: Context Matters

Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal, Vol.31 (2), pp.703-724, 2018

22 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2020

Inya Egbe

Independent

Emmanuel Adegbite

University of Nottingham

Kemi C. Yekini

De Montfort University, Leicester Business School

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

Purpose – This paper examines how differences in the institutional environment of a multinational enterprise (MNE) shape the role of management control systems (MCSs) and social capital in the headquarters-subsidiary relationship of an emerging economy MNE.

Design/methodology/approach – A case study design was adopted in this research. Data was gathered by means of semi-structured interviews, document analysis and observations. Interviews were conducted at the Nigerian headquarter (HQ) and United Kingdom (UK) subsidiary of the Nigerian multinational enterprise.

Findings – The study found that the subsidiary operated autonomously, given its residence in a stronger institutional environment than the HQ. Instead of the HQ depending on MCSs as a means of coordination and control, it relied on social capital that existed between the HQ and the subsidiary to coordinate and integrate the operation of the foreign subsidiary studied.

Originality/value – The reliance on social capital as a means of coordination and control of the foreign subsidiary in this study is significant, given that previous studies have indicated that multinational HQs normally employ MCSs as a means of control of foreign subsidiaries. Also, while previous studies have suggested that MNEs HQs have better expertise which enables them to design and transfer MCSs to foreign subsidiaries, this study found that such expertise relates to the institutional environment from which the HQ is operating from. Through the lens of institutional sociology theory and social capital theory, these findings directly contribute to the literature on the transference of practices and control systems in accounting and international business literatures.


Keywords: Emerging multinational enterprises; Multinational enterprises; Management control systems; Social capital; New institutional sociology; Headquarter-subsidiary relationship

Suggested Citation:

Egbe, Inya and Adegbite, Emmanuel and Yekini, Kemi C., The Influence of Multinational Enterprises on Subsidiaries: Context Matters (2018). Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal, Vol.31 (2), pp.703-724, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3512733 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3512733
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
J Aarstad , S Haugland , A Greve
Performance Spillover Effects in Entrepreneurial Networks: Assessing a Dyadic Theory of Social Capital
Entrepreneurship: Theory & Practice , volume 34 , p. 1003 - 1019 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M A Abernethy , P Brownell
Management control systems in research and development organizations: The role of accounting, behavior and personnel controls
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 22 , p. 233 - 248 Posted: 1997
Crossref
S Abrutyn , J Turner
The Old Institutionalism Meets the New Institutionalism
Sociological Perspectives , volume 54 , p. 283 - 306 Posted: 2011
Crossref
E Adegbite
Corporate governance in the Nigerian banking industry: Towards a strategic governmental engagement
International Journal of Business Governance and Ethics , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 209 - 231 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Franklin Nakpodia , Emmanuel Adegbite
Corporate Governance and Elites
(2018) Accounting Forum, Vol.42, pp. 17-31. · 36 Pages · Posted: 25 Jan 2020 · Downloads: 171
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Charl de Villiers , Matteo La Torre , Vida Botes
Accounting and social capital - A review and reflections on future research opportunities
Accounting & Finance, forthcoming. DOI: 10.1111/acfi.12948, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper · 42 Pages · Posted: 4 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 48
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
839
RANK
753,521
2 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies