Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Dynamics Around Restatement Announcements

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

61 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2020

Katsiaryna Bardos

Fairfield University

Brandon N. Cline

Mississippi State University

Gregory Koutmos

Fairfield University - Charles F. Dolan School of Business

Date Written: May 4, 2019

Abstract

We investigate the dynamic nature and temporal daily changes in systematic (beta), as well as idiosyncratic and total risk around restatement announcements. We find that beta increases by 51% at restatement announcement but it reverts to the pre-restatement level within one month. However, idiosyncratic risk experiences a longer-term increase of approximately 20% following a restatement. Cross-sectional analysis shows that the results are more pronounced for restatements associated with irregularity. Overall, our findings suggest that risk components are time-varying with the systematic component rapidly mean-reverting but the idiosyncratic component experiencing a longer-term increase.

Suggested Citation:

Bardos, Katsiaryna and Cline, Brandon N. and Koutmos, Gregory, Risk Dynamics Around Restatement Announcements (May 4, 2019). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3512964
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
B Badertscher , J Burks
Accounting restatements and the timeliness of disclosures
Accounting Horizons , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 609 - 629 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R D Banker , D Byzalov , S Fang , Jin B
Operating asymmetries and non-linear spline correction in discretionary accrual models
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, forthcoming Posted: 2019
Crossref
K Bardos , J Golec , J Harding
Do investors see through mistakes in reported earnings?
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 46 , issue 6 , p. 1917 - 1946 Posted: 2011
Crossref
K Bardos
Quality of financial information and liquidity
Review of Financial Economics , volume 20 , p. 49 - 62 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
616
RANK
889,053
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies