Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Africapitalism and Corporate Governance

Adegbite, E., Nakpodia, F., Seny Kan, A.K. and Onakoya, O. (2018), "Africapitalism and corporate governance", in Africapitalism: Rethinking the Role of Business in Africa, pp. 71- 98, Cambridge University Press.

33 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2020

Emmanuel Adegbite

University of Nottingham

Franklin Nakpodia

Independent

Konan Seny Kan

University of Otago ; University of Otago

Olorunfemi Onakoya

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

Corporate governance is contextual (Adegbite and Nakajima, 2011), and context matters to Africapitalism (Amaeshi and Idemudia, 2015). The existence of different national institutions means that increased global competition, as well as the integration of financial markets, will not express themselves in the same ways in different national governance systems. As different systems of capitalism typically produce different responses to similar pressures, a one-size-fits-all approach to the firm’s governance is unattractive (Aguilera and Jackson, 2003). Following this position, the Africapitalist corporate governance model articulated in this chapter presents itself as an important structure for conceptualising, understanding and committing to the private sector’s participation in Africa’s socio-economic development. Therefore, defining and articulating the principles of this Africapitalist corporate governance model represents the main objective and contribution of this chapter. Drawing insights from Africa’s leading economies (South Africa and Nigeria), our discussions facilitate the emergence of a workable, practical and useful corporate governance model, which in turn promotes the Africapitalism project.

Suggested Citation:

Adegbite, Emmanuel and Nakpodia, Franklin and Seny Kan, Konan Anderson and Seny Kan, Konan Anderson and Onakoya, Olorunfemi, Africapitalism and Corporate Governance (2018). Adegbite, E., Nakpodia, F., Seny Kan, A.K. and Onakoya, O. (2018), "Africapitalism and corporate governance", in Africapitalism: Rethinking the Role of Business in Africa, pp. 71- 98, Cambridge University Press., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3512802 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3512802
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
E Adegbite
Good Corporate Governance in Nigeria: Antecedents, Propositions and Peculiarities
International Business Review , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 319 - 330 Posted: 2015
Crossref
E Adegbite , K Amaeshi , Amao , O
The Politics of Shareholder Activism in Nigeria
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 105 , issue 3 , p. 389 - 402 Posted: 2012
Crossref
E Adegbite , K Amaeshi , C Nakajima
Multiple Influences on Corporate Governance Practice in Nigeria: Agents, Strategies and Implications
International Business Review , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 524 - 538 Posted: 2013
Crossref
E Adegbite , C Nakajima
Institutional Determinants of Good Corporate Governance: The Case of Nigeria
Firm-Level Internationalisation, Regionalism and Globalisation , p. 379 - 396 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,086
RANK
759,678
1 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies