Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Neither Principles nor Rules: Making Corporate Governance Work in Sub-Saharan Africa

50 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2020

Franklin Nakpodia

Independent

Emmanuel Adegbite

University of Nottingham

Kenneth Amaeshi

University of Edinburgh Business School; Cranfield University - School of Management

A. Owolabi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

Corporate governance is often split between rule-based and principle-based approaches to regulation in different institutional contexts. This split is often informed by the types of institutional configurations, their strengths, and the complementarities within them. This approach to corporate governance regulation is mostly discussed in the context of developed economies and their regulatory demands. However, in developing and weak market economies, such as in Sub-Saharan Africa, there is no such explicit split and the debates on such contexts in the comparative corporate governance literature has been meagre. Nonetheless, there are sparks of good corporate governance practices in the region. Drawing from institutional theory and a case study of Nigeria – Africa’s largest economy – we explore the appropriateness or suitability of corporate governance regulatory frameworks in Sub-Saharan Africa. Our findings suggest that Nigeria needs an integrated system that combines elements of both rule-based and principle-based regulation, supported by a multi-stakeholder co-regulation strategy. This paper departs from the mainstream rule-based and principle-based categorisations by forging ahead new perspectives on corporate governance regulation, especially in weak market economies.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Sub-Saharan Africa (Nigeria), principles-based, rule-based, co-regulation, institutional theory; culture

Suggested Citation:

Nakpodia, Franklin and Adegbite, Emmanuel and Amaeshi, Kenneth and Owolabi, A., Neither Principles nor Rules: Making Corporate Governance Work in Sub-Saharan Africa (2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3512771 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3512771
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
121 References
Recent corporate governance failures in Nigeria include scandals at Cadbury, Unilever, Siemens, Haliburton as well as the banking crisis which led to the collapse of several banks Posted: 2012
Common law' refers to laws that are derived from custom and judicial precedent rather than statutes
It is important to highlight the influence of western colonisation on Sub Saharan African economic and political institutions
M Abdullahi , O Enyinna , S Ahunanya
Transparency in Corporate Governance: A Comparative Study of Enron, USA and Cadbury PLC
Nigeria. The Social Sciences , volume 5 , issue 6 , p. 471 - 476 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,201
RANK
545,411
121 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies