Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Structure and Corporate R&D Intensity: Evidence from Forbes Global 2000

International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, Vol. 28 No. 3

25 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2020

Aws Alhares

University of Huddersfield

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Ibrahem Alshbili

The Libyan Audit Bureau,Department of Corporate Governance, Dahra Squire, Tripoli, Libya

Maha Moustafa

Open University, UK

Date Written: December 31, 2019

Abstract

Purpose – This study seeks to examine the impact of board structure on risk-taking measured by R&D intensity in OECD countries.

Design/methodology/approach – The study uses a panel data of 200 companies on Forbes Global 2000 over the 2010- 2014 period. It employs the ordinary least square multiple regression analysis technique to examine the hypotheses.

Findings – The results show that the frequency of board meetings and board size are significantly and negatively related to risk-taking measured by R&D intensity, with a greater significance among Anglo American countries than among Continental European countries. The rationale for this is that the legal and accounting systems in the Anglo-American countries have greater protection through greater emphasis on compliance and disclosure and therefore allowing for less risk-taking.

Research limitations/ implications – The results suggest that better-governed firms at firm- or national-level have a high expectancy of less risk-taking. These results offer regulators a resilient incentive to pursue corporate governance and disclosure reforms officially and mutually with national-level governance. Thus, these results show the monitoring and legitimacy benefits of governance, resulting in less risk-taking. Lastly, the findings offer investors the opportunity to build specific expectations about risk-taking behavior in terms of R&D intensity in OECD countries. Future research could investigate risk-taking using different arrangement, conducting face-to-face meetings with the firm’s directors and shareholders.

Originality/value – This study extends, as well as contributes to the extant CG literature, by offering new evidence on the effect of board structure on risk-taking. The findings will help policymakers in different countries in estimating the sufficiency of the available CG reforms to prevent management mishandle and disgrace.

Keywords: R&D; Corporate Governance; OECD Countries; Frequency of Board Meetings; Board Size; Forbes

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Alhares, Aws and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Alshbili, Ibrahem and Moustafa, Maha, Board Structure and Corporate R&D Intensity: Evidence from Forbes Global 2000 (December 31, 2019). International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, Vol. 28 No. 3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3512254
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
F Belloc
Corporate governance and innovation: A survey
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 26 , issue 5 , p. 835 - 864 Posted: 2012
Crossref
W Ben-Amar , C Francoeur , T Hafsi , R Labelle
What makes better boards? A closer look at diversity and ownership
British Journal of Management , volume 24 , p. 85 - 101 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S Bianchini , J Krafft , F Quatraro , J &amp;ravix
Corporate governance, innovation and firm age: insights and new evidence Posted: 2015
Crossref
B S Black , W Kim , H Jang , K S Park
How corporate governance affect firm value? Evidence on a self-dealing channel from a natural experiment in Korea
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 51 , p. 131 - 150 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
982
RANK
609,870
2 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies