Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Decoupling Management Inefficiency: Myopia, Hyperopia and Takeover Likelihood

International Review of Financial Analysis, Vol. 62, 2019

20 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2020

Abongeh A. Tunyi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Jo Danbolt

University of Edinburgh Business School

Date Written: January 10, 2019

Abstract

Using combinations of accounting and stock market performance measures, we advance a comprehensive multidimensional framework for modelling management performance. This framework proposes “poor” management, “myopia”, “hyperopia” and “efficient” management, as four distinct attributes of performance. We show that these new attributes align with, and extend, existing frameworks for modelling management short-termism. We apply this framework to test the management inefficiency hypothesis using UK data over the period 1988 to 2017. We find that takeover likelihood increases with “poor” management and “myopia”, but declines with “hyperopia” and “efficient” management. Our results suggest that managers who focus on sustaining long-term shareholders' value, even at the expense of current profitability, are less likely to be disciplined through takeovers. By contrast, managers who pursue profitability at the expense of long-term shareholder value creation are more likely to face takeovers. Finally, we document the role of bidders as enforcers of market discipline.

Keywords: Hyperopia, Inefficient management hypothesis, Management performance, Myopia, Takeovers

JEL Classification: G14, G32, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Tunyi, Abongeh A. and Ntim, Collins G. and Danbolt, Jo, Decoupling Management Inefficiency: Myopia, Hyperopia and Takeover Likelihood (January 10, 2019). International Review of Financial Analysis, Vol. 62, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3512567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
R Agarwal , M Gort
Firm and product life cycles and firm survival
American Economic Review , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 184 - 190 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Agrawal , J F Jaffe
Do takeover targets underperform? Evidence from operating and stock returns
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 721 - 746 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B W Ambrose , W L Megginson
The role of asset structure, ownership structure, and takeover defenses in determining acquisition likelihood
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 27 , issue 4 , p. 575 - 589 Posted: 1992
Crossref
P Asquith
Merger bids, uncertainty, and stockholder returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 11 , issue 1-4 , p. 51 - 83 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
782
RANK
872,402
4 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies