Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR Communication Research: A Theoretical Cum-Methodological Perspective from Semiotics

46 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2020

Kemi C. Yekini

De Montfort University, Leicester Business School

Kamil Omoteso

Coventry University, Business School - Faculty of Business and Law

Emmanuel Adegbite

University of Nottingham

Date Written: January 2, 2020

Abstract

Despite the proliferation of studies on corporate social responsibility (CSR) communication, there is lack of consensus and a cardinal methodological base for research on the quality of CSR communication. Over the decades, studies on the subject have remained conflicting, unintegrated and sometimes overlapping. Drawing on semiotics – a linguistic-based theoretical and analytical tool, our paper explores an alternative perspective to evaluating the quality and reliability of Sustainability reports. Our two-phased analysis employed the Greimas Canonical Narrative Schema and the Semiotic Square of Veridiction to draw meanings from the Sustainability/CSR Reports of selected UK FTSE100 companies. Our paper advances CSR communication research by introducing a theoretical methodology which provides unique insights into how to evaluate the quality of CSR communication. In addition, we present a distinctive CSRR Quality model capable of guiding policy makers and firms in designing Sustainability/CSR reporting standards.

Keywords: CSR Communication, CSR Reports, Greimas, Narrative, Semiotics, Sustainability Reports

Suggested Citation:

Yekini, Kemi C. and Omoteso, Kamil and Adegbite, Emmanuel, CSR Communication Research: A Theoretical Cum-Methodological Perspective from Semiotics (January 2, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3512728 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3512728
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
C A Adams
The ethical, social and environmental reporting-performance portrayal gap
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 17 , issue 5 , p. 731 - 757 Posted: 2004
Crossref
H Aguinis , J R Edwards
Methodological wishes for the next decade and how to make wishes come true
Journal of Management Studies , volume 51 , p. 143 - 174 Posted: 2014
Crossref
O B Albu , M Flyverbom
Organizational transparency: Conceptualizations, conditions, and consequences , volume 2 , p. 268 - 297 Posted: 2016
Crossref
K Amaeshi , E Adegbite , C Ogbechie , U Idemudia , A K Seny-Kan , M Issa , O I J Anakwue
Corporate Social Responsibility in SMEs: A shift from philanthropy to institutional works
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 138 , issue 2 , p. 385 - 400 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
981
RANK
538,134
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies