Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Study on Corporate Governance in Emerging Markets: A Focus on Compliance of South African and South Korean Listed Companies

Journal of Korea Trade Vol. 23, No. 6, October 2019, 93-112

20 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2020

Joseph-Kwaku Ahialey

Pai Chai University - Department of Business Administration

Ho-Jung Kang

Pai Chai University - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: October 20, 2019

Abstract

Purpose – First, this study contextually examines the governance codes of South Africa and South Korea. Second, it analyzes board features of South African (JSE) Mainboard and South Korean (KRX) KOSPI-listed companies.

Design/methodology – This review is qualitative and uses data from the annual reports of the selected markets’ companies, respective exchanges’ official web sites and corporate governance-related web sites in order to examine the corporate governance practices in the two markets. In addition, Nvivo is employed in analyzing the content of the corporate governance codes of the selected countries.

Findings – Our analysis indicates that the corporate governance codes of the two countries are evolving to keep up with the international trend of principles-based approach. The composition of the board of directors (BODs) of non-financial companies of both South Africa and South Korea shows no significant variation between the companies with regards to the executive (inside) and nonexecutive (outside) directors. On the contrary, there is a significant variation between South African and South Korean listed companies with respect to diversity.

Originality/value – While previous studies are centered on the impact of governance codes on performance, this study intends to contextually evaluate the codes and features of South Africa and South Korea listed companies. This is essential and timely for regulators and policy makers given the importance of corporate governance features such as board independence and diversity in recent times.

Keywords: Board of Directors, Compliance, JSE, KRX, Ownership Structure

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Ahialey, Joseph-Kwaku and Kang, Ho-Jung, Study on Corporate Governance in Emerging Markets: A Focus on Compliance of South African and South Korean Listed Companies (October 20, 2019). Journal of Korea Trade Vol. 23, No. 6, October 2019, 93-112 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3514412
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
D Abad , M E Lucas-Pérez , A Minguez-Vera , J Yagüe
Does Gender Diversity on Corporate Boards Reduce Information Asymmetry in Equity Markets?
BRQ Business Research Quarterly , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 192 - 205 Posted: 2017
Crossref
A E M Abdellatif
Corporate Governance Mechanisms and Asymmetric Information: An Application on the UK Capital Market (Doctoral Dissertation) Posted: 2009
M Ali , Y L Ng , C T Kulik
Board Age and Gender Diversity: A Test of Competing Linear and Curvilinear Predictions
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 125 , issue 3 , p. 497 - 512 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Sridhar Arcot , Valentina Giulia Bruno
In Letter But Not in Spirit: An Analysis of Corporate Governance in the UK
Pages: 73 Posted: 13 Oct 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
859
RANK
478,373
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies