Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Spillover Effects of Firms’ Data Breach Disclosures on Suppliers and on Industry Peer Competitors

Posted: 30 Jan 2020

Patience Constance

University of West Florida

Michael Ettredge

University of Kansas - Accounting and Information Systems Area

Feng Guo

Iowa State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Yijun Li

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE); Erasmus Research Institute of Management (ERIM)

Date Written: January 1, 2020

Abstract

Data breaches are becoming increasingly pervasive and costly to firms. Prior and recent studies on the consequences of disclosed data breaches primarily focus on the direct effects on the breached firms. We undertake a different approach by studying the spillover effects from breached customer firms to related firms (their suppliers). We also study the spillover effects from breached firms to similar firms (same-industry competitors). We first document that such spillover effects exist in the stock market, as reflected by negative cumulative abnormal returns to stocks of suppliers following breach disclosures made by their major customers. We also observe positive cumulative abnormal returns to stocks of firms in the same industries as breached firms. Spillover effects to related and similar firms also exist for real activities. Non-breached suppliers reduce their extension of trade credit to customers following disclosures of breaches by specific related (customer) firms. Suppliers also reduce relation-specific investments in R&D following disclosures of breaches by related firms. Non-breached firms increase their extension of trade credit, and their R&D outlays, subsequent to disclosures of breaches made by similar (same-industry, competing) firms. We further document differential spillover consequences for data breaches accomplished by outsiders via electronic means (such as external hacking of corporate computers) versus data breaches accomplished by insiders or via other means (such as by theft of hardware). Our findings suggest that important consequences of data breaches extend beyond the breached firms.

Suggested Citation:

Constance, Patience and Ettredge, Michael L. and Guo, Feng and Li, Yijun, Spillover Effects of Firms’ Data Breach Disclosures on Suppliers and on Industry Peer Competitors (January 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3514839
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,531
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies