Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Human versus Machine: A Comparison of Robo-Analyst and Traditional Research Analyst Investment Recommendations

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2020 Last revised: 16 Sep 2022

Braiden Coleman

University of Georgia - Terry College of Business

Kenneth J. Merkley

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Joseph Pacelli

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Date Written: June 01, 2022

Abstract

We provide the first comprehensive analysis of the properties of investment recommendations generated by “Robo-Analysts,” which are human-analyst-assisted computer programs conducting automated research analysis. Our results indicate that Robo-Analyst recommendations differ from those produced by traditional “human” research analysts across several important dimensions. First, Robo-Analysts produce a more balanced distribution of buy, hold, and sell recommendations than do human analysts and are less likely to recommend “glamour” stocks and firms with prospective investment banking business. Second, automation allows Robo-Analysts to revise their recommendations more frequently than human analysts and incorporate information from complex periodic filings. Third, while Robo-Analysts’ recommendations exhibit weak short-window return reactions, they have long-term investment value. Specifically, portfolios formed based on the buy recommendations of Robo-Analysts significantly outperform those of human analysts. Overall, our results suggest that automation in the sell-side research industry can benefit investors.

Keywords: FinTech, Analysts, Robo-Analyst, Investment Recommendations

JEL Classification: G14, G24

Suggested Citation:

Coleman, Braiden and Merkley, Kenneth J. and Pacelli, Joseph, Human versus Machine: A Comparison of Robo-Analyst and Traditional Research Analyst Investment Recommendations (June 01, 2022). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3514879 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3514879
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
Accenture
Fintech and the evolving landscape: landing points for the industry Posted: 2018
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Automation and new tasks: How technology displaces and reinstates labor
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 2019
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Robots and jobs: Evidence from US labor markets
Journal of Political Economy , volume 128 , issue 6 , p. 2188 - 2244 Posted: 2020
O Altınkılıç , R S Hansen
On the information role of stock recommendation revisions
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 36 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
32,779
RANK
2,880
35 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies