Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Control Quality and Litigation Risk -Evidence from China

16 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2020

Hongming Zhang

Centre for Monetary and Financial Studies (CEMFI); South China University of Technology

Date Written: January 6, 2020

Abstract

This paper introduces internal control quality to study litigation risk which enrich the literature of how to reduce firms’ litigation risk. This paper use listed company data from 2000-2015 in China A-share market to research how firms’ internal control affect litigation risk, and which kind of influence on litigation risk caused by internal control. By using regression model and conducting endogenous test, this paper finds that the higher internal control quality, the lower litigation risk of firms by reducing the number of involving litigation and funds used in lawsuit. If companies with good internal control quality, they can avoid many risks caught by litigation risk. Especially for firms in growth and undeveloped market, internal control quality can play a more vital role in corporate governance.

Keywords: Internal Control, Litigation Risk, China Studies, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Hongming, Internal Control Quality and Litigation Risk -Evidence from China (January 6, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3514825 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3514825
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W Kinney
The Discovery and Reporting of Internal Control Deficiencies Prior to SOX-mandated Audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W Kinney , R Lafond
The Effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies and their Remediation on Accrual Quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Crossref
V Atanasov , V Ivanov , K Litvak
Does reputation limit opportunistic behavior in the VC industry? Evidence from litigation against VCs
The Journal of Finance , volume 67 , p. 2215 - 2246 Posted: 2012
Crossref
. D M Autore , I Hutton , . D R Peterson
The effect of securities litigation on external financing
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 27 , p. 231 - 250 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,346
RANK
292,443
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies