Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Regulatory Observer Effect: Evidence from SEC Investigations

74 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2020 Last revised: 30 May 2025

Terrence Blackburne

Oregon State University

Zahn Bozanic

Florida State University

Bret A. Johnson

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Darren T. Roulstone

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Date Written: May 29, 2025

Abstract

Using novel data from the SEC on Division of Enforcement investigations and their enforcement outcomes, we examine whether firms alter their financial reporting during periods of increased regulatory scrutiny. We first examine the determinants of an investigated firm receiving an enforcement action in order to document firm actions that may forestall SEC enforcement. We document that the likelihood of an enforcement action is increasing in pre-investigation levels of conventional measures of accounting manipulation or irregularities (e.g., F-Score and FSD Score) and decreasing in the pre-investigation level of accounting conservatism (e.g., C-Score). While CEO and CFO turnover are positively associated with enforcement actions, we show that firms which bring more accounting expertise into their executive ranks have a lower likelihood of being sanctioned. Next, we provide modest evidence that managers adjust accruals and real earnings management during the investigation. However, these results are only marginally significant or insignificant in sub-samples based on enforcement actions. Third, we document that managers take actions during the investigation which increase accounting conservatism and lower measures of accounting manipulation and irregularities. Consistent with a regulatory observer effect, most of these changes are concentrated in firms not receiving enforcement actions from the SEC suggesting that these changes are aimed at reducing the probability of enforcement. Finally, we document several adverse outcomes for investigation firms including a reduction in investment, an increase in executive turnover, increases in lawsuits, and increases in adverse regulatory outcomes (e.g., restatements and comment letters). These adverse outcomes are found for both firms sanctioned and not sanctioned by the SEC suggesting that the consequences of investigations are more severe than documented in prior research which focused on firms receiving AAERs. Building on that research, our study improves our understanding of how heightened regulatory scrutiny over financial reporting influences managerial behavior regarding firms’ accounting practices and operating decisions, and documents negative outcomes for both sanctioned and non-sanctioned firms.

Keywords: Accounting, Financial Reporting, SEC, Investigations, Enforcement, Observer Effect, Regulation

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G18, G28, G38, K22, K23

Suggested Citation:

Blackburne, Terrence and Bozanic, Zahn and Johnson, Bret A. and Roulstone, Darren T., The Regulatory Observer Effect: Evidence from SEC Investigations (May 29, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3514915 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3514915
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J Cox , Q Dupont , J Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: A multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , E Rouen
Financial statement errors: Evidence from the distributional properties of financial statement numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , p. 1540 - 1593 Posted: 2015
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics Posted: 2008
P Asquith , A Beatty , J Weber
Performance pricing in bank debt contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , issue 1-3 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,847
RANK
39,716
12 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies