Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Company Secretary as Governance Officer

41st National Convention of Company Secretaries, pp 84-90, 2013

12 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2020

Devendra Jarwal

University of Delhi

Date Written: November 7, 2013

Abstract

Corporate Compliance and Corporate Governance are important areas for effective capital markets and corporate growth. Interestingly company secretaries assumes pivotal role in both corporate compliances and implementation of corporate governance codes. These two areas have also highlighted the role of company secretaries as governance officers. In this paper, an attempt has been made to summarize and compile the various aspects related to company secretaries which also touches the governance areas. The capacity of company secretary can ensure higher level of corporate administration and governance according to the prescribed norms. As we know Board of Directors are main body responsible for governance of a company and nowadays there is requirement of independent directors on the board and companies are moving towards an Independent Chair for the Board, hence it has become increasingly important to have a company secretary, who can maintain the vital communication link between the Board and the Company so as to enhance communication and stay up to date with corporate changes.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Corporate Compliance, Company Secretary, Capital Market

JEL Classification: K00

Suggested Citation:

Jarwal, Devendra, The Role of Company Secretary as Governance Officer (November 7, 2013). 41st National Convention of Company Secretaries, pp 84-90, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3514505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
R Chadha , S Chadha
Company and Compensation Laws , volume 22 , p. 18 - 19 Posted: 2013
Satya Ranjan Swain
Insolvency of Companies – Under Companies Act 1956: A Legal Perspective and Reform
Pages: 1 Posted: 25 Feb 2010
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Companies Act Posted: 2013
Crossref
Company Secretarial Practice
ICSI , p. 486 - 515 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
641
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,621
RANK
94,800
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies