Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detection of Earnings Management as a Measure of Income Smoothing on Fluctuations in Exchange Rates: Managerial Implications for Korean Exporters

Journal of Korea Trade Vol. 23, No. 6, October 2019, 66-92

27 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2020

Sang Hyun Ji

Baekseok University

Date Written: October 20, 2019

Abstract

Purpose – Foreign Exchange Rates (FER) have been one of the most significant factors for both Korean exporters and the economy of Korea. The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether exporters with a high level of Exchange Rate Elasticity of Sales (ERES) make the use of earnings management for Income Smoothing (IS).

Design/methodology – Income smoothing was obtained using the methodology suggested by Leuz, Nanda and Wysocki (2003). Accruals-based Earnings Management (AEM) was estimated using Discretionary Accruals (DA) calculated by the operant Jones Model developed by Dechow, Sloan and Sweeney (1995). Real Earnings Management (REM) was obtained using the methodologies suggested by Roychowdhury (2006) and Cohen and Zarowin (2010). Data were 2,402 firm years of public listed companies on the KRX, which were not in the financial industry and had a settlement of accounts in December for the period from 2013 to 2017.

Findings – Results of the evaluation are as follows. First, companies with higher levels of ERES have relatively lower levels of smoothing of reported income. This might be because a fluctuation in sales caused by an exchange rate fluctuation has a direct impact on the volatility of the reported income. Second, companies with high levels of both ERES and IS have a positive correlation with both AEM and REM. This might be because companies with high levels of IS engage in earnings management to smooth reported income. Specifically, it is possible to assume that for smoothing the reported income, not only AEM but also REM is practiced. Third, companies with high levels of ERES but low levels of IS have a negative correlation with both AEM and REM. This could be interpreted as companies exhibiting low levels of IS due to higher levels of ERES tend to control IS. In addition, such results were supported by firms relying highly on exporting, and are consequently sensitive to exchange rate fluctuation. Therefore, it may conclude that companies with high levels of ERES make the use of earnings management as a means of IS.

Originality/value – This study can find its significance from the fact that it is the first study, empirically verifying that companies of Korea, where exportation is a large part, use both AEM and REM as a means for smoothing reported income upon facing exchange rate fluctuations. In addition, it is highly expected that the results of this study could be useful for participants of financial markets when making IS-related decisions.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Exporters, Fluctuations in Exchange Rates, Income Smoothing

JEL Classification: F31, M16, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ji, Sang Hyun, Detection of Earnings Management as a Measure of Income Smoothing on Fluctuations in Exchange Rates: Managerial Implications for Korean Exporters (October 20, 2019). Journal of Korea Trade Vol. 23, No. 6, October 2019, 66-92, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3514410
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
J Aziz , Sang-Hyun , Kyun-Bong Ji , Lee
A Study on the Relevance between Book-Tax Difference and Earnings Information
Tax Accounting Research , volume 59 , p. 117 - 135 Posted: 2019
Crossref
C R Beidleman
Income Smoothing: The Role of Management
The Accounting Review , volume 48 , issue 4 , p. 653 - 668 Posted: 1973
Myung-Soo Cho , Tae-Hyung Oh
The Exchange Rate Elasticity of Sales and Earnings Management
Korean Journal of Business Administration , volume 25 , issue 9 , p. 3659 - 3675 Posted: 2012
Yong-Eon Cho , Mi-Hwa Choi , Jin-Soo Lee
Book-Tax Differences, Earnings Management and Tax Avoidance
Accounting Information Review , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 231 - 260 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
568
RANK
644,694
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies