Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Externalities and Voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from a Major Customer’s Earnings Announcement

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2020-107

52 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2020

Young Jun Cho

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Yongtae Kim

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Yoonseok Zang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 6, 2020

Abstract

We examine the relation between information externalities along the supply chain and voluntary disclosure. Information transfers from a major customer’s earnings announcement (EA) can substitute for its supplier’s disclosure. Conversely, if the customer’s EA increases uncertainties regarding the supplier’s future prospects, it can increase the demand for disclosure. After controlling for information incorporated in supplier returns, we find that the supplier is more likely to issue earnings guidance after the customer’s EA when the EA news deviates more from the market’s expectation. The positive effect of the customer’s news on earnings guidance is weaker when common investors, supply-chain analysts, or a common industry allow investors to better understand the value implications of the news, while the effect increases with the importance of the customer to the supplier. The effect is also stronger when the EA news is negative than positive. Collectively, the results suggest that supply-chain relationships influence voluntary disclosure.

Keywords: customer-supplier relationship, supply chain, earnings announcement, information transfers, earnings guidance, voluntary disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Cho, Young Jun and Kim, Yongtae and Zang, Yoonseok, Information Externalities and Voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from a Major Customer’s Earnings Announcement (January 6, 2020). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2020-107, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3514909 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3514909
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
C Ai , C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B Ajinkya , M Gift
Corporate managers' earnings forecasts and symmetrical adjustments of market expectations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 444 Posted: 1984
Crossref
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors, and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Baiman , R Verrecchia
The relation among capital markets, financial disclosure, production efficiency, and insider trading
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
580
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,690
RANK
107,760
17 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies