Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Controlling Shareholders Matter for the Conditions of Bank Loans? Evidence From Spain

Posted: 31 Jan 2020

Celia Alvarez-Botas

Universidad de Oviedo

Carlos Fernandez

Oviedo University - School of Economics and Business

Víctor M. González

Universidad de Oviedo - Facultad de Economicas

Date Written: January 8, 2020

Abstract

This paper analyses the influence of large controlling shareholders on the terms of bank loans for a sample of 984 loans to 261 nonfinancial Spanish public and private firms over the period 2001-2017. The results show that the presence of large controlling shareholders increases interest rate spread and reduces loan maturity. A less evenly balanced distribution of ownership among large shareholders is associated with higher loan spreads. During the crisis, non-financial Spanish firms obtained worse conditions on bank loans, as loan spread increased and maturity decreased. Furthermore, the maturity of bank loans was found to be positively related to the presence of families as large controlling shareholders during the financial crisis, reflecting that these shareholders reduced the agency costs of debt.

Keywords: controlling shareholders, noncontrolling shareholders, types of shareholders, agency costs of debt, loan terms

JEL Classification: G01, G21, G32

Suggested Citation:

Alvarez-Botas, Celia and Fernandez, Carlos and González, Víctor M., Do Controlling Shareholders Matter for the Conditions of Bank Loans? Evidence From Spain (January 8, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3515886
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
506
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies