Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sins of the Father: The Effect of Parent Firms’ Accounting Misconduct on Current and Former Subsidiaries

Posted: 30 Jan 2020 Last revised: 30 Aug 2023

Alina Lerman

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Jingyu Xu

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 13, 2023

Abstract

We examine how managerial, accounting, and economic connections affect the public subsidiaries of parent firms when the parent experiences a financial misconduct event. We find that current and former subsidiaries have worse economic performance than industry peers, driven by increased costs for the subsidiaries, after the parent’s misconduct event. This underperformance concentrates in subsidiaries with stronger connections to the parent. We find evidence that the market impounds the parent’s misconduct into subsidiaries’ stock prices, but the reaction does not fully account for information in the misconduct type or firm connection type. To complement our pooled analysis, we conduct a case study examining how the well-publicized misconduct at Enron affected Enron’s four publicly traded subsidiaries. Despite the publicity accompanying the Enron scandal, we observe no significant differences in contemporaneous market reaction for any Enron subsidiary. Overall, the market appears to face limitations in recognizing the nuances of parent-subsidiary relationships.

Keywords: Restatement, Bankruptcy, Information Transfer, Management Reputation

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lerman, Alina and Utke, Steven and Xu, Jingyu, Sins of the Father: The Effect of Parent Firms’ Accounting Misconduct on Current and Former Subsidiaries (June 13, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3516833 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3516833
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,570
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies