Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Turnover and Accounting Earnings: The Role of Earnings Persistence

Management Science, 67 (5): 2657-3320, 2021

45 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2020 Last revised: 15 Dec 2021

Inho Suk

The State University of New York at Buffalo; Korea University Business School (KUBS)

Seungwon Lee

Pennsylvania State University Harrisburg

William Kross

State University of New York (SUNY) at Buffalo - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 1, 2019

Abstract

Although earnings persistence should have a nontrivial impact on CEO turnover decisions, prior studies have paid little attention to the role of earnings persistence in CEO turnover decisions. This study examines the effect of earnings persistence on the sensitivity (i.e., the negative relation) of CEO turnover to earnings performance. First, we find that the sensitivity of forced CEO turnovers to earnings performance is greater when earnings are more persistent. We also show that among numerous earnings attributes, earnings persistence is the most direct and dominant attribute in explaining CEO turnover-earnings sensitivity. Further, when the effect of earnings persistence on CEO compensation-earnings sensitivity is weak, the effect of earnings persistence on CEO turnover-earnings sensitivity is stronger, suggesting that the executive discipline system substitutes for the compensation system when earnings persistence is neglected by compensation policies. Overall, our findings suggest that earnings persistence plays a crucial role in CEO turnover decisions by elevating the board’s knowledge on the future performance implications of current earnings. Finally, the role of persistence is even more crucial when it is neglected by executive compensation policies.

Keywords: Earnings persistence; CEO turnover; CEO turnover-performance sensitivity; Pay-performance sensitivity; Corporate governance

JEL Classification: G34; M41

Suggested Citation:

Suk, Inho and Lee, Seungwon and Kross, William, CEO Turnover and Accounting Earnings: The Role of Earnings Persistence (December 1, 2019). Management Science, 67 (5): 2657-3320, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3516091
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
C Ai , E Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
E Allen , C Larson , R Sloan
Accrual reversals, earnings and stock returns
J. Accounting Econom , volume 56 , p. 113 - 129 Posted: 2013
W Baber , S Kang , K Kumar
Accounting earnings and executive compensation: The role of earnings persistence
J. Accounting Econom , volume 25 , p. 169 - 193 Posted: 1998
S Balsam , S Miharjo
The effect of equity compensation on voluntary executive turnover
J. Accounting Econom , volume 43 , p. 95 - 119 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
501
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,922
RANK
129,363
2 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies