Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Top Management Team Heterogeneity, Governance Changes and Book-Tax Differences

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, 2018, Vol 32, 30-46, 2018

53 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2020

Nor Shaipah Abdul Wahab

Taylor's University

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Mohd Muttaqin Mohd Adnan

Taylor's University - Business School

Tye Wei Ling

Taylor's University - Business School

Date Written: May 31, 2018

Abstract

Book-tax differences (BTD) explain the differences between accounting and tax incomes. This study examines the extent to which the heterogeneity of the top management team (TMT) is related to a firm’s BTD level with a specific focus on the effect of the 2012 changes in Malaysian corporate governance regulations. Psychologically and socially inspired-upper echelons theory is used to hypothesize that the TMT’s age, tenure, education, and gender heterogeneities will be significantly related to the firm’s BTD level. Using a sample of Bursa Malaysia listed firms for the eight-year period from 2008 to 2015, our findings suggest significant relationships between BTD and heterogeneity in age, tenure and education. We attribute the relationship between age and tenure heterogeneity to the subsample period prior to the change in the corporate governance regulations. The analysis based on levels of heterogeneity suggests that the relationship between BTD and heterogeneity in education is only significant within low heterogeneity subsample. This study contributes to the existing literature and practice by providing new evidence to support psychologically and socially inspired-upper echelons theory in explaining the effect that TMT heterogeneity has on a firm’s BTD level. This study also provides new insights on financial reporting and taxation from a governance perspective.


Keywords: Top Management Team, Heterogeneity, Malaysia, Book-Tax Differences, Psychologically and Socially Inspired-Upper Echelons Theory

Suggested Citation:

Abdul Wahab, Nor Shaipah and Ntim, Collins G. and Adnan, Mohd Muttaqin Mohd and Ling, Tye Wei, Top Management Team Heterogeneity, Governance Changes and Book-Tax Differences (May 31, 2018). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, 2018, Vol 32, 30-46, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3517882
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
Abdul Wahab , N S
Malaysian multinational companies (MNC): Permanent and temporary nature of tax planning
Cogent Business & Management , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2016
Abdul Wahab , N S Holland , K
Tax planning, corporate governance and equity value
British Accounting Review , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 124 Posted: 2012
Abdul Wahab , N S Holland , K
The persistence of book-tax differences
British Accounting Review , volume 47 , issue 4 , p. 339 - 350 Posted: 2015
Abdul Wahab , N S Holland , K Soobaroyen , T
Do UK outside CEOs engage more in tax planning than the insiders?
Jurnal Pengurusan , volume 45 , issue 3 , p. 119 - 129 Posted: 2015
Load more
3 Citations
John Malagila , Alaa Zalata , Collins G. Ntim , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer
Corporate Governance and Performance in Sports Organisations: The Case of UK Premier Leagues
Malagila, J.K., Zalata, A.M., Ntim, C.G., and Elamer, A.A. (2020). Corporate Governance and Performance in Sports Organisations: The Case of UK Premier Leagues. International Journal of Finance and Economics, Forthcoming. · 31 Pages · Posted: 14 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 238
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Henry Agyei-Boapeah , Collins G. Ntim , Samuel Fosu
Governance Structures and the Compensation of Powerful Corporate Leaders in Financial Firms during M&As
Agyei-Boapeah, H., Ntim, C.G., and Fosu, S. (2019). ‘Governance Structures and the Compensation of Powerful Corporate Leaders in Financial Firms during M&As’, Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming., · 50 Pages · Posted: 10 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 71
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Stergios Leventis , Emmanouil Dedoulis , Stavroula Kourdoumpalou
An Analysis of JIAAT Editorial Board Composition and Research Review
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming · 69 Pages · Posted: 15 May 2024 · Downloads: 114
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
841
RANK
475,518
3 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies