Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overlapping Board Connections with Banker Directors and Corporate Loan Terms: Evidence from Syndicated Loans

Global Finance Journal, Forthcoming

Posted: 5 Feb 2020 Last revised: 21 Sep 2021

Asli Togan

Kadir Has University

Date Written: January 13, 2020

Abstract

I look at the relationship between corporate loan terms and connections of board members to bankers through employment on other boards, a connection less likely to be affected by confounding factors. Specifically, I examine whether loan terms such as pricing and maturity as well as other loan characteristics such as whether loan terms require secured tranches and whether loans are leveraged or not are affected by professional connections to bankers. Using syndicated loan data, I find that firms connected to bankers via other boards are more likely to borrow, and they receive cheaper pricing. However, maturity of loans is not different between the two groups. I further examine whether these results were different during the most recent 2007-2008 global financial crisis. Results show that loan availability declined during the financial crisis for all firms but connected firms continued to borrow. With respect to loan pricing, during the crisis, firms with overlapping professional connections continued to receive lower spreads. However, loan maturities during the crisis period do not show a differential effect for firms with connections. Overall, results suggest support for the importance of social connections in decreasing information asymmetry and reducing transaction costs between lenders and borrowers.

Keywords: Board of Directors, Social Networks, Syndicated Loans, Bank Lending, Lending Outcomes, Asymmetric Information

JEL Classification: G21, G31, G32, G34, L14, L25

Suggested Citation:

Togan, Asli, Overlapping Board Connections with Banker Directors and Corporate Loan Terms: Evidence from Syndicated Loans (January 13, 2020). Global Finance Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3518445
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
768
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies