Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Long-Term Institutional Owners Improve Market Efficiency in Parsing Complex Legal Disputes?

60 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2020 Last revised: 23 Jun 2020

Paul Borochin

University of Florida - Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate

Xiaoqiong Wang

Indiana University Kokomo

Siqi Wei

David Nazarian College of Business and Economics, California State University, Northridge

Date Written: January 15, 2020

Abstract

Long-horizon institutional investors can help mitigate information asymmetries around securities class action (SCA) lawsuits. We find that the machine readability of SCA complaint filings can predict the outcome and duration of class actions. Long-term institutional investor ownership leads to a more positive post-SCA announcement price reaction and increases the volatility ratio of prices as a measure of price informativeness. Furthermore, there is a significant interaction effect between long-term institutional ownership and SCA complexity on price informativeness consistent with a superior information processing ability about complex corporate events affecting portfolio firms.

Keywords: Institutional ownership, Securities class actions, Market efficiency, Natural language processing

JEL Classification: G30, G14, G32, K41

Suggested Citation:

Borochin, Paul and Wang, Xiaoqiong and Wei, Siqi, Can Long-Term Institutional Owners Improve Market Efficiency in Parsing Complex Legal Disputes? (January 15, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3519677 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3519677
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
J C Alexander
Do the merits matter: A study of settlements in securities class actions
Stan. L. Rev , volume 43 Posted: 1990
Crossref
W Antweiler , M Z Frank
Is all that talk just noise? the information content of internet stock message boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 1259 - 1294 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L S Bamber , T E Christensen , K M Gaver
Do we really knowwhat we think we know? a case study of seminal research and its subsequent overgeneralization. Accounting, organizations and society , volume 25 , p. 103 - 129 Posted: 2000
W H Beaver
The information content of annual earnings announcements
Journal of accounting research , p. 67 - 92 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,079
RANK
289,981
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies