Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blockchain Governance: What We Can Learn From the Economics of Corporate Governance

Allen, D. W. E. and Berg, C. (2020) ‘Blockchain Governance: What We Can Learn from the Economics of Corporate Governance?’, The Journal of the British Blockchain Association 3 (1), 1-10. https://doi.org/10.31585/jbba-3-1-(8)2020

14 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2020 Last revised: 5 Dec 2023

Darcy W E Allen

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Chris Berg

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Date Written: January 15, 2020

Abstract

Understanding the complexities of blockchain governance is urgent. The aim of this paper is to draw on other theories of governance to provide insight into the design of blockchain governance mechanisms. We define blockchain governance as the processes by which stakeholders (those who are affected by and can affect the network) exercise bargaining power over the network. Major considerations include the definition of stakeholders, how the consensus mechanism distributes endogenous bargaining power between those stakeholders, the interaction of exogenous governance mechanisms and institutional frameworks, and the needs for bootstrapping networks. We propose that on-chain governance models can only be partial because of the existence of implicit contracts that embed expectations of return among diverse stakeholders.

Keywords: Blockchain Governance, Institutional Cryptoeconomics, Economics of Blockchain, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Allen, Darcy W E and Berg, Chris, Blockchain Governance: What We Can Learn From the Economics of Corporate Governance (January 15, 2020). Allen, D. W. E. and Berg, C. (2020) ‘Blockchain Governance: What We Can Learn from the Economics of Corporate Governance?’, The Journal of the British Blockchain Association 3 (1), 1-10. https://doi.org/10.31585/jbba-3-1-(8)2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3519564 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3519564
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
A A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, Information Costs, and Economic Organization
The American Economic Review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
D W E Allen
The Private Governance of Entrepreneurship: An Institutional Approach to Entrepreneurial Discovery Posted: 2017
D W E Allen
Governing the Entrepreneurial Discovery of Blockchain Applications
Journal of Entrepreneurship and Public Policy
D W E Allen , A Berg , B Markey-Towler
Blockchain and Supply Chains: V-Form Organisations, Value Redistributions, De-Commoditisation and Quality Proxies
The Journal of the British Blockchain Association , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 65 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,611
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,248
RANK
26,113
4 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies