Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Disclosures of Cyber Exposure

Iowa Law Review, Vol. 105, 2019

43 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2020

Christina Parajon Skinner

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: November 1, 2019

Abstract

Financial institutions are increasingly subject to cyber incidents and attacks. Cyber intrusions threaten these institutions’ balance-sheets and reputations, and can undermine their resilience. From a societal perspective, cyber risk is particularly concerning as it regards systemically important financial institutions, like the largest internationally active banks. This is because the stability of the financial system as a whole—and thus the real economy—depends on these banks’ resilience to stressful events, including cyber attacks. To date, the SEC has taken the lead among the financial regulators in addressing cyber risk, chiefly through an emphasis on disclosure. This Article critically examines the existing design of that mandatory disclosure regime by reviewing the content of nearly 900 SEC filings made by the seven systemically important U.S. bank holding companies over a three-year period. That review suggests that the current trajectory of SEC rules and guidance is in some ways overbroad as applied to these institutions; but in other ways, the rules and guidance remain inadequate to address the various public and private interests at stake. The Article urges the SEC to design a more nuanced set of rules for cyber disclosure, which would be better tailored for systemically important banks.

Keywords: disclosure, banks, SIFI, cyber risk, securities regulation

Suggested Citation:

Skinner, Christina Parajon, Bank Disclosures of Cyber Exposure (November 1, 2019). Iowa Law Review, Vol. 105, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3519159
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Bank Of Am , Co
Annual Report (Form 10-K) 11 Posted: 2016
Bank of Am. Co., Annual Report Posted: 2018-02-22
Crossref
America
Bank of Am. Co., Annual Report Posted: 2017-02-22
Crossref
Citigroup Inc
Annual Report (Form 10-K) 59 Posted: 2017-02-24
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,021
RANK
527,931
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies