Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reflections on the Impact of the Digital Revolution on Corporate Governance of Listed Companies

first published in Ducth by Uitgeverij Paris in 2019, and written in assignment of the Dutch Corporate Law Association for their annual conference

63 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2020

Lokke Moerel

Tilburg University - Tilburg Institute for Law, Technology, and Society

Date Written: December 1, 2019

Abstract

The new digital technologies (and in particular artificial intelligence, AI) enable many new services that disrupt existing business models. The new business models in turn present new privacy issues and ethical dilemmas, and societal resistance to the excesses of the new data economy is becoming increasingly visible and urgent. It is a challenge for established companies to both drastically innovate in order to remain future-proof and at the same time take social responsibility. The question that now arises is whether our current corporate governance regulation requires adjustment in order to be able to navigate these times of transformation. This is not a strange question, as corporate governance is now transcending the boundaries of strict interaction between the traditional organs of the company (board of directors and shareholders) and is increasingly spilling over into compliance, risk management and responsible entrepreneurship. Under European corporate governance rules, boards are expected to lead a process of change where it is necessary to bring about a change in corporate culture for long-term value creation. Part of the culture of a company is the increasing attention to ethics and to why people act the way they do. To that end, boards must identify good and bad practices and dilemmas that employees encounter in the company, so that they can be trained to strengthen the corporate culture.

Research by MIT Sloan CISR (2019) reports that U.S. listed companies that have a digital savvy board show substantially better financial performance. What is a digital savvy board? What are the differences between the old and the new world? What are the new ethical dilemmas and how do you prevent making the same mistakes as Big Tech? Why does innovation fail so often within the existing structures of established companies? If innovation is better achieved in small and agile teams, how does this fit into the command and control structure of compliance-driven organizations, such as financial institutions? Why does the three lines of defence model for risk management insisted on by supervisory authorities has an inhibitory effect on innovation in practice? Is it sufficient that one of the board members has digital this expertise, or do more or even all board members directors have to re- and upskill, as it is called today? How do we ensure a more balanced discussion of the risks of implementing new technologies, which include risks if the company does not innovate? How do we find time and attention in the company for innovation if we already have enough trouble to upgrading or replacing existing IT systems (legacy systems)? How do we balance the ever-greater investments in digitization and developing digital services, potentially undermining our own business model, with our short-term (financial) KPIs and reporting? Do 1-tier boards perform better than 2-tier boards? The author discusses these questions as well as provides solutions how boards can better navigate the digital transformation.

Suggested Citation:

Moerel, E.M.L., Reflections on the Impact of the Digital Revolution on Corporate Governance of Listed Companies (December 1, 2019). first published in Ducth by Uitgeverij Paris in 2019, and written in assignment of the Dutch Corporate Law Association for their annual conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3519872 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3519872
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
H:\team\September_BV\Presentations_and_Articles\Pre-advies Vereeniging Handelsrecht Reflecties over impact digitalisering op governance van vennootschappen.-FINALdoc (007).docx
Crossref
J Abbruzzese
Elizabeth Warren calls to break up Facebook, Google and Amazon Posted: 2019-03-08
Accenture Posted: 2017
Crossref
Financial Accenture , Providers
Transforming Distribution models for evolving customers Posted: 2017
Load more
2 Citations
Junbo He , Min Fan , Yaojun Fan , Ioana Gutu
Digital transformation and supply chain efficiency improvement: An empirical study from a-share listed companies in China
PLOS ONE , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. e0302133 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Anne Lafarre , Titiaan Keijzer
Board's Digital Oversight and Expertise: Initial Findings from the Netherlands
Forthcoming in Corporate Governance and Artificial Intelligence - a conflicting or complementary approach (Edward Elgar, edited volume by prof. I. Dube), Amsterdam Law School Research Paper No. 2023-23, Amsterdam Center for Law & Economics Working Paper No. 2023-08 · 19 Pages · Posted: 2 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 124
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
469
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,467
RANK
140,123
2 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies