Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Liquidity and Corporate Governance

Proceedings of the 4th Chapman Conference on Money & Finance on Liquidity: Pricing, Management and Financial Stability

13 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2020

Tom Berglund

Hanken School of Economics - Department of Economics

Date Written: December 16, 2019

Abstract

This paper discusses the relationship between stock market liquidity and corporate governance. Both concepts are widely investigated from different angles in the literature. It is generally agreed that they are related so that better corporate governance implies higher liquidity for shares of listed companies. However, the importance of good corporate governance for the market liquidity of the share will differ depending on the characteristics of the firm’s business. Good corporate governance will be particularly important in reducing agency problems in firms subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Proper corporate governance, in other words, matters most in cases where external assessment of the firm’s business prospects is difficult, while it is less important for value creation in firms where the business is easier to understand.

Keywords: Market liquidity, Corporate governance, asymmetric information, agency problems

JEL Classification: G14, G32

Suggested Citation:

Berglund, Tom Patrik, Liquidity and Corporate Governance (December 16, 2019). Proceedings of the 4th Chapman Conference on Money & Finance on Liquidity: Pricing, Management and Financial Stability, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3519588 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3519588
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Adams R &amp; D Ferreira
A Theory of Friendly Boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
G Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Z Alam , M Chen , C &amp; H E Ciccotello , Ryan
Does the Location of Directors Matter? Information Acquisition and Board Decisions
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 131 - 164 Posted: 2014
Crossref
D A Agudelo , S Giraldo , E Villarraga
Does PIN measure information? Informed trading effects on returns and liquidity in six emerging markets
International Review of Economics & Finance , volume 39 , p. 149 - 161 Posted: 2015-09
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,269
RANK
456,571
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies