Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ethics Training Approaches in Accountants’ Continuing Professional Education

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 20(4): 533-576, 2019

44 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2020

Jane Cote

Washington State University

Claire Latham

Washington State University

Date Written: December 28, 2019

Abstract

Accountants perform a critical social function of engendering public trust in corporate reporting. As such, ethical misconduct committed by accountants tends to have a broader impact. Mandated continuing ethics education underscores the import of accountants’ ethical behavior; however, there exists uncertainty as to how best to conduct ethics education so that it enhances ethical capability. Our research evaluates the effectiveness of two ethics training approaches adopted in accounting continuing professional education workshops. Results indicate participants who underwent the action-oriented training are significantly more likely to refuse to concede to the client in a questionable and pressured setting than individuals who participated in the traditional training. As far as we are aware, this is the first study that compares two pedagogical approaches to ethics education in continuing professional education, the primary mechanism the profession uses to enhance ethical action.



Keywords: Ethics Training, Action-Oriented Training, Accounting, Continuing Professional Education, CPE

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M53

Suggested Citation:

Cote, Jane and Latham, Claire, Ethics Training Approaches in Accountants’ Continuing Professional Education (December 28, 2019). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 20(4): 533-576, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3520369
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Aacsb International
Accounting teaching and learning standards Posted: 2013-06-18
M J Abdolmohammadi , D L
A test of the selection-socialization theory in moral reasoning of CPAs in industry practice
professionals. Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 55 - 78 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S C Borowski , Y J Urgas
Business students and ethics: A meta-analysis
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 17 , issue 11 , p. 1117 - 1127 Posted: 1998
A L Christensen , J Cote , C K Latham
Developing ethical confidence: the impact of action-oriented ethics instruction in an accounting curriculum
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 153 , issue 4 , p. 1157 - 1175 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
254
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,496
RANK
275,154
7 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies