Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Options Trading and Corporate Debt Structure

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 49, 2025

57 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2020 Last revised: 13 Apr 2025

Jie Cao

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Michael G. Hertzel

Arizona State University (ASU) - Finance Department

Jie Xu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Xintong Zhan

Fudan University - School of Management; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER)

Date Written: December 06, 2024

Abstract

Options trading activity can affect firm debt structure decisions by stimulating informed trading that improves the informational environment in which firms raise debt capital. We find supporting evidence, at both the extensive and intensive margin, that firms with actively traded options are able to shift from bank to public debt financing. We provide corroborating evidence that the shift from bank financing reflects reduced demand for the special role that banks play in ex ante information collection and ex post monitoring for firms with greater information asymmetry. Three quasi-natural experiments and instrumental variable analysis support a causal interpretation of our findings.

Keywords: Options trading, debt structure, new debt choice, information asymmetry

JEL Classification: G32, G21, M41, D82

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Jie and Hertzel, Michael G. and Xu, Jie and Zhan, Xintong, Options Trading and Corporate Debt Structure (December 06, 2024).
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 49, 2025
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3520403 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3520403
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Muhammad Ali , Balasingham Jahangir , Huu Balachandran , Premkanth Nhan Duong , Michael Puwanenthiren , Theobald
Does option trading affect audit pricing?
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting Posted: 2024
Edward I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Seraina C Anagnostopoulou , Lenos Trigeorgis , Andrianos E Tsekrekos
Enhancement in a firm's information environment via options trading and the efficiency of corporate investment
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 149 Posted: 2023
Ryan Ball , Robert Bushman , Florin Vasvari
The debt-contracting value of accounting information and loan syndicate structure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 247 - 287 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
758
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,217
RANK
76,350
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies