Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Giant Shadow of Corporate Gadflies

94 Southern California Law Review 569 (2021)

Univ. of Wisconsin Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1523

68 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2020 Last revised: 28 Sep 2021

Yaron Nili

Duke University School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Kobi Kastiel

Tel Aviv University - Buchmann Faculty of Law; Harvard Law School, Program on Corporate Governance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: January 15, 2020

Abstract

Modern-day shareholders influence corporate America more than ever before. From demanding greater accountability of executives to lobbying for a variety of social and environmental policies, shareholders today have the power to alter how American companies are run. Amazingly, a small group of individual shareholders wields unprecedented power to set corporate agendas and stands at the epicenter of our contemporary corporate governance ecosystem. In fact, the power of these individuals, known as “corporate gadflies,” continues to rise.

Corporate gadflies present a puzzling reality. Although public corporations in the United States are increasingly owned by large institutional investors, much of their corporate governance agenda has been and is still dominated by a handful of individuals who own tiny slivers of most large companies. How does an economy with corporate equity in the trillions of dollars cede so such governance power to corporate gadflies? More importantly, should it? Surprisingly, scholars have paid little attention to the role of corporate gadflies in this ever-changing governance landscape.

This Article is the first to address the giant shadow that corporate gadflies cast on the corporate governance landscape in the United States. The Article makes three contributions to the literature. First, using a comprehensive dataset of all shareholder proposals submitted to the S&P 1500 companies from 2005 to 2018, it offers a detailed empirical account of both the growing power and influence that corporate gadflies wield over major corporate issues and of gadflies’ power to set governance agendas. Second, the Article uses the context of corporate gadflies to elucidate a key governance debate over the role of large institutional investors in corporate governance. Specifically, the Article underscores the potential concerns raised by the activity of corporate gadflies and questions the current deference of institutional investors to these gadflies regarding the submission of shareholder proposals. Finally, the Article proposes policy reforms aimed at reframing the current discourse on shareholder proposals and potentially sparking a new line of inquiry regarding the role of investors in corporate governance.


Keywords: Corporate Law, Shareholder Proposals, Gadflies, Securities Regulation, Corporate Governance, Shareholder Activism

JEL Classification: K2, K22, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Nili, Yaron and Kastiel, Kobi, The Giant Shadow of Corporate Gadflies (January 15, 2020). 94 Southern California Law Review 569 (2021), Univ. of Wisconsin Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1523, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3520214 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3520214
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
Evelyn Y Davis
Shareholder Activist and CEO Foil, Dead at 89, CBS NEWS Posted: 2018-11-05
Ross Kerber
special-report-economy-class-activist-investor-crashes-the-corporate-party-idUSBRE99M0LE20
Special Report: Economy-class Activists Investor Crashes the Corporate Party, REUTERS Posted: 2013-10-23
Emily Flitter , Evelyn Y Davis
Shareholder Scourge of C.E.O.s, Dies at 89
N.Y. TIMES Posted: 2018-11-07
Evelyn Laurence Arnold , Queen Davis , Shareholder Of , Activism
Under Rule 14(a)(8), for meetings held on or after January 1, 2022, a shareholder can submit a proposal if they continuously hold at least $25,000 in market value for at least one year prior to the shareholder meeting or $15,000 for at least two years
BLOOMBERG , volume 89 Posted: 2018-11-05
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,223
RANK
38,550
2 Citations
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Wisconsin Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies