Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Strengths and Weaknesses of Lehman Brothers’ Corporate Governance Mechanisms and Internal Controls

8 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2020

Chenoy Ceil

Independent

Date Written: March 19, 2019

Abstract

Lehman Brother’s corporate governance mechanisms and internal controls had several flaws that led to the downfall of the organization. The company lacked corporate governance measures that could highlight the fraudulent activities within the company. Corporate governance in any organization is controlled by the shareholders (owners) of the company, the directors of the company and its managers who utilize the company’s assets. The four pillars of corporate governance are accountability, fairness, transparency and independence. The role of banking reforms in controlling financial institutions have been in place for long.

Keywords: chenoy ceil, consultcorporates, internal controls, Corporate governance, company’s asset

Suggested Citation:

Ceil, Chenoy, The Strengths and Weaknesses of Lehman Brothers’ Corporate Governance Mechanisms and Internal Controls (March 19, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521071 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3521071
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
V Acharya , M Richardson
Causes of the Financial Crisis
Critical Review , volume 21 , issue 2-3 , p. 195 - 210 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Becht , P Bolton , A Roell
Why Bank Governance is Different Posted: 2012
Crossref
Oxford Review of Economic Policy , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 37 - 463
Crossref
P Carrel
The Handbook of Risk Management: Implementing a Post Crisis Corporate Culture Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,040
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,015
RANK
18,036
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies