Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organizational Form and Access to Capital: The Role of Regulatory Interventions

Pace University Research Paper

50 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2020

Debarati Basu

Shiv Nadar University, School of Management and Entrepreneurship

Kaustav Sen

Pace University - Lubin School of Business

Date Written: January 17, 2020

Abstract

We examine the impact of a regulation that requires only disclosure of ownership information and no real change of firm fundamentals, on a firm’s access to capital. As a first of its kind corporate governance regulation across the globe, Clause 35 of the Securities Exchange Board of India required firms to classify shareholders into insiders and outsiders only, with no other structural changes. Using a large sample of publicly traded firms in India, a market characterized by weak enforcement and concentrated ownership, we find that prior to the regulation and as expected from literature, group-affiliated firms exhibited better access to capital (lower investment-cash flow sensitivity) than standalone firms. However, this reverses after the regulation, i.e., group-affiliated firms face more financial constraints (higher investment-cash flow sensitivity). This increase in sensitivity is restricted to only group firms with higher insider ownership, especially for firms which have no compensating mechanisms (weaker governance/monitoring) or perform poorly in the future. In essence, we find that regulation exclusively requiring information disclosure has been effective in reallocating capital more efficiently to firms with fewer agency problems.

Keywords: Financial Constraints; Agency; Mandatory Disclosures; Efficiency; Business Groups; Insider Ownership; Emerging Markets

JEL Classification: D82; G30; G31; G32; G38; M48

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Debarati and Sen, Kaustav, Organizational Form and Access to Capital: The Role of Regulatory Interventions (January 17, 2020). Pace University Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521251 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3521251
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Within every column, there are three samples; sub-column 1 that presents the full sample, sub-column 2 for the pre-regulation sample and subcolumn 3 for the post-regulation sample. The value of β3 (coefficient of bg*owncf) in every column indicates how this relationship is different for group-affiliated and standalone firms
*** , *
the coefficient is significant at the 1 percent, 5 percent, and 10 percent level, respectively. The slopes and adjusted R-squares reported above are the average of the annual cross-sectional regressions (Fama-MacBeth); the period of study and the total observations across all cross-sections are also reported Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,106
RANK
730,194
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies