Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance at Lehman Brothers

7 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2020

Chenoy Ceil

Independent

Date Written: April 05, 2019

Abstract

The Lehman Brother’s corporate governance mechanisms and internal control systems were the utilization of the board of directors to regulate the functioning of the company. However, in spite of these control mechanisms and corporate governance, Lehman Brother’s failed because the company was dominated by the CEO of the company, Richard Fuld. Some of the new regulations such as the living will, are yet to be completely enforced and, it is for the regulatory agencies to strictly enforce the Basel III regulations to prevent future bailouts of financial institutions.

Keywords: chenoy ceil, consultcorporates, Lehman Brother’s, corporate governance, regulatory agencie

Suggested Citation:

Ceil, Chenoy, Corporate Governance at Lehman Brothers (April 05, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521073 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3521073
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
M Becht , P Bolton , A Roell
Why Bank Governance is Different Posted: 2012
Crossref
Oxford Review of Economic Policy , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 37 - 463
Crossref
P Carrel
The Handbook of Risk Management: Implementing a Post Crisis Corporate Culture Posted: 2010
M Gakpo
The Fall of Lehman Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Kobsidthi Silpachai , Sununta Siengthai , Roger Levermore
Corporate governance, information asymmetry and firm performance: evidence from Thailand
Cogent Economics & Finance , volume 12 , issue 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,878
RANK
16,106
1 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies