Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Decisions by Business Groups in India: Is It ‘Fair and Square’?

Basu, D., & Sen, K. (2015). Financial decisions by business groups in India: Is it “fair and square”?. Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics, 11(2), 121-137.

Posted: 11 Feb 2020

Debarati Basu

Shiv Nadar University, School of Management and Entrepreneurship

Kaustav Sen

Pace University - Lubin School of Business

Date Written: February 24, 2015

Abstract

Using a large sample of business-group-affiliated firms in India, we investigate whether corporate financial decisions that create internal capital markets are influenced by the extent of insider ownership. We hypothesize that insiders want to control more capital, motivated either by opportunism or efficiency.We distinguish opportunism from efficiency based on whether sales decrease or increase in the year after financial decisions are taken. We find that as insider ownership increases, a firm (i) transfers less capital into the group when sales increase in the following year, (ii) pays out less dividends when sales decrease in the following year and (iii) receives less capital from the group if it is struggling. This indicates that insiders act in an efficient manner when transferring capital across firms within the group. However, when deciding whether to return capital to investors, they retain resources even when future performance does not improve and thus act opportunistically.

Keywords: Internal capital markets, Opportunism vs. efficiency, Business groups, Dividends, Cash flow rights

JEL Classification: G15, G34

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Debarati and Sen, Kaustav, Financial Decisions by Business Groups in India: Is It ‘Fair and Square’? (February 24, 2015). Basu, D., & Sen, K. (2015). Financial decisions by business groups in India: Is it “fair and square”?. Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics, 11(2), 121-137., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521178
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
697
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies