Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Managerial Overconfidence on Conference Calls

The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 14 (1), p. 1-12, 2020

22 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2020

Shu-Ling Chang

Southern Taiwan University of Science and Technology

Long-Jainn Hwang

WuFeng University

Chun An Li

National Yunlin University of Science and Technology

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

This study examines the relation between managerial overconfidence and conference calls. Prior studies document that some managers tend to be overconfident because they believe they have more precise knowledge about future events than they genuinely possess. Overconfident managers tend to convene conference calls since they are an important tool to disclose information about the future. We examine how managerial overconfidence affects the occurrence and frequency of conference calls using evidence from the Taiwan stock market. To measure managerial overconfidence, following Kolasinski and Li (2013), we use an example of managers purchasing their own firm’s stock over a two-year period, followed by negative average returns. Based on data from publicly listed firms in Taiwan for the period from 2005 to 2015, the results provide robust evidence, suggesting that managerial overconfidence and conference calls are significantly positively correlated. We find that companies with higher managerial overconfidence are likely to frequently convene conference calls. Prior research on managerial overconfidence mainly discussed the impact on financing and investment decisions, while this study provides further supplementary evidence of the impact of convening conference calls, and managerial decisions on disclosure behavior.

Keywords: Conference Call, Managerial Overconfidence

JEL Classification: D12, D25, M10

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Shu-Ling and Hwang, Long-Jainn and Li, Chun An, The Effect of Managerial Overconfidence on Conference Calls (2020). The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 14 (1), p. 1-12, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3522524
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,255
RANK
388,737
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies