Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Board Independence in the Banking Sector of Bangladesh

Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.3 No.1 (2020)

18 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2020

Md. Rezaul Karim

University of Dhaka

Ranjan Kumar Mitra

University of Dhaka

Ibrahim Khan

University of Dhaka

Date Written: January 20, 2020

Abstract

This paper examines the determinants of board independence in the banking sector of Bangladesh. The study applies a multivariate panel regression analysis for the thirty banks listed with DSE covering the period from 2006 to 2016. We use the proportion of independent directors to total number of directors on the board to measure board independence. Findings of the empirical analysis show that a board is likely to be more independent when independent directors have relevant skill and knowledge as required by prevailing corporate governance regulation. Besides, this paper finds that the boards of larger firms are more independent than those of smaller firms. Moreover, the boards of the levered firms tend to be more independent because debt holders exert intense pressure to implement stringent monitoring mechanisms. Another vital finding of this paper is that board independence is lower for older firms. A plausible reason might be that matured firms devise stricter and more efficient internal control mechanisms that offset the need for independent board. This study also reports findings that are contrary to the traditional belief. For example, we find that longer tenure and prior relationship of independent directors with the firm increases board independence by developing a sense of dedicative attachment of the independent directors with the firm. On the other hand, larger and active boards tend to be an impediment for board independence. Finally, we find no association of board independence with growth opportunity, profitability, and board gender diversity. The findings will have policy implications in designing the role of board independence.

Keywords: Board Independence, Corporate Governance, Banking Sector, Bangladesh

Suggested Citation:

Karim, Md. Rezaul and Mitra, Ranjan Kumar and Khan, Ibrahim, Determinants of Board Independence in the Banking Sector of Bangladesh (January 20, 2020). Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.3 No.1 (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3522017
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
S Abdullah , N Z Abidin , I A Bakar , A Rahman
The Appointment Process for Independent Directors in Malaysian Listed Companies
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 14 , issue 1 Posted: 2016
Crossref
B Adhikary , R Mitra
Determinants of Audit Committee Independence in the Financial Sector of Bangladesh
Applied Finance and Accounting , volume 2 , issue 2 Posted: 2016
Crossref
B Al-Najjar
The Determinants of Audit Committee Independence and Activity: Evidence from the UK
International Journal of Auditing , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 191 - 203 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Basmah Altuwaijri , Lakshmi Kalyanaraman
Is ‘Excess’ Board Independence Good for Firm Performance? An Empirical Investigation of Non-Financial Listed Firms in Saudi Arabia
Pages: 9 Posted: 15 Mar 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
770
RANK
713,531
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies