Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dark Side of Corporate Social Responsibility: The Case of Director Information Acquisition

53 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2020

Chunbo Liu

Shanghai International Studies University

Yongxin Xu

Monash University; Monash University

Date Written: August 1, 2019

Abstract

Using the staggered enactment of state-level constituency statutes as an exogenous shock to corporate social responsibility, we find that directors’ information acquisition intensity, measured by the return for their trading of company shares, decreases by 4% after the enactment. Our results are consistent with the argument that allowing directors to consider stakeholders’ interests makes directors less accountable. We further show that the effect is more pronounced when directors either have less incentive to collect information or it is more costly to do so. Last, less informed directors seem to be less effective monitors but not less effective advisors.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility; Constituency statutes; Board of directors; Information acquisition

JEL Classification: G30, M14

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Chunbo and Xu, Yongxin, The Dark Side of Corporate Social Responsibility: The Case of Director Information Acquisition (August 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3523024 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3523024
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
259
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,811
RANK
269,796
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies