Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Time to acquire: Regulatory burden and M&A activity

International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2020 Last revised: 14 Jan 2022

Attila Balogh

University of Melbourne - Department of Finance

Usha Creedy

The University of Sydney - Discipline of Finance

Danika J. Wright

The University of Sydney - Discipline of Finance

Date Written: January 23, 2020

Abstract

Firms go public to make acquisitions, but private firms benefit from lower regulatory cost. Investment by newly public firms may be limited if managers need to focus on compliance instead of growth. Exploiting a 2012 US policy reform, we show that when regulatory cost is lower, firms make more acquisitions, do so more quickly after listing, and also increase other forms of investment. Examining potential unintended consequences of reduced regulation, we find that opportunistic bidding arising from higher information asymmetry does not explain these results. We inform the ongoing policy debate on broadening the scale and scope of regulatory relief.

Keywords: Initial Public Offerings, Acquisitions, Mergers, Regulatory Cost

JEL Classification: G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Balogh, Attila and Creedy, Usha and Wright, Danika J., Time to acquire: Regulatory burden and M&A activity (January 23, 2020). International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3523630 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3523630
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
J Asker , J Farre-Mensa , A Ljungqvist
Corporate investment and stock market listing: A puzzle?
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , p. 342 - 390 Posted: 2014
L L Bargeron , K M Lehn , C J Zutter
Sarbanes-Oxley and corporate risk-taking
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , p. 34 - 52 Posted: 2010
M E Barth , W R Landsman , D J Taylor
The JOBS Act and information uncertainty in IPO firms
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , p. 25 - 47 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,652
RANK
377,290
4 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies