Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Timeliness of Audited Reports of Quoted Companies in Nigeria

International Journal of Business and Management Invention (IJBMI), Volume 9, Issue 1, Ver. I, 2020

9 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2020

Peter Gbalam Eze

Niger Delta University (NDU) - Department of Banking and Finance

Promise Nkak

Niger Delta University (NDU) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 16, 2020

Abstract

The study investigates corporate governance and timeliness of audited reports of quoted companies in Nigeria. The population was all quoted companies listed at the Nigerian Stock Exchange, collected secondary data from published financial statements on the compliance issued by the Nigerian Stock Exchange as of March 31 2018. The hypotheses formulated for this study was tested using the regression model. The study found that board composition has a significant effect on the timeliness of the audited reports. The result indicates that late filers companies are likely to have boards with significantly lower numbers of independent Non Executive Directors, audit committee members with financial expertise than their early filers companies. The study finds that board independent non-executive director and audit committee financial expertise have a significant positive effect on the timeliness of audited reports of companies. Therefore, the study concludes that corporate governance has a significant and positive impact on timeliness of audited reports of companies listed in the Nigerian stock exchange. In the light of the above, the study recommended that the late filers firms should learn the various process for speeding up audit reports from the early filers firms that guarantee their timeliness in the audited report, there could be an accounting that needs to be learnt by the late filers firms to improve their financial activities and finally, the regulatory authorities should continue to intensify stiffer fines in the pursuit of timeliness of audit reports among the companies.


Keywords: Timeliness, Audit report, Audit committee composition, Board composition

Suggested Citation:

Eze, Peter Gbalam and Nkak, Promise, Corporate Governance and Timeliness of Audited Reports of Quoted Companies in Nigeria (January 16, 2020). International Journal of Business and Management Invention (IJBMI), Volume 9, Issue 1, Ver. I, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3524383
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Y A Abdelrahman , A K Basheer
Audit report lag, audit tenure, and auditor industry specialization; Empirical evidence from Jordan
Jordan Journal of Business Administration , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 459 - 479 Posted: 2016
K Ahmed
A comparative study of timeliness of corporate financial reporting in South-Asia
Advances in International Accounting , volume 16 , p. 17 - 42 Posted: 2003
R Ahmad , A Kamarudin
Audit delay and timeliness of corporate reporting: Malaysian Evidence Posted: 2001
A W Alford , J J Jones , M E Zmijewski
Extensions and violations of the statutory SEC Form 10-K filing requirements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 229 - 254 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
512
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,627
RANK
125,978
2 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies