Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does corporate governance quality influence insider trading around private meetings between managers and investors?

52 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2020 Last revised: 3 Jul 2022

Robert M. Bowen

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros School of Business & Economics; University of Washington - Foster School of Business

Shantanu Dutta

The University of Ontario Institute of Technology (UOIT)

Songlian Tang

CUNY Baruch College; East China University of Science and Technology (ECUST)

PengCheng Zhu

University of San Diego

Date Written: June 23, 2022

Abstract

We examine the effectiveness of corporate governance in influencing insider trading around private in-house meetings (hereafter “private meetings”) between management and investors in China. Consistent with better corporate governance curbing (i) disclosure of non-public price-sensitive information and (ii) insider trading, we find that better governance quality is associated with reduced insider trading frequency, value, and profitability around private meetings. Firms with better corporate governance appear to exchange less price-sensitive information with outsider investors around private meetings, which limits the opportunity to make profitable insider trades. Our results are economically significant and robust using instrumental variable and propensity score matching approaches to address endogeneity. We argue that improving corporate governance quality may be a partial substitute for costly government regulation designed to curb insider trading around private meetings.

Keywords: private in-house meetings, site visits, corporate governance, disclosure, insider trading, fair disclosure regulation, China

JEL Classification: G34; G14; G18

Suggested Citation:

Bowen, Robert M. and Dutta, Shantanu and Tang, Songlian and Tang, Songlian and Zhu, Phil, Does corporate governance quality influence insider trading around private meetings between managers and investors? (June 23, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3524533 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3524533
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
D Anantharaman , Y Zhang
Cover me: Managers' responses to changes in analyst coverage in the post-Regulation FD period
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , p. 1851 - 1885 Posted: 2011
C Armstrong , C Ittner , D Larcker
Corporate governance, compensation consultants, and CEO pay levels
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 17 , p. 322 - 351 Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Zhen QI , Yixiao Zhou , Jian Chen
Corporate Site Visits and Firm Performance
52 Pages · Posted: 26 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 121
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,834
RANK
232,476
1 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies