Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blockholder Mutual Fund Participation in Private In-house Meetings

61 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2020 Last revised: 2 Sep 2022

Robert M. Bowen

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros School of Business & Economics; University of Washington - Foster School of Business

Shantanu Dutta

University of Ottawa - Telfer School of Management

Songlian Tang

CUNY Baruch College; East China University of Science and Technology (ECUST)

PengCheng Zhu

University of San Diego

Date Written: August 31, 2022

Abstract

The Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) in China is unique worldwide in requiring disclosure of the timing, participants, and selected content of private in-house meetings between firm managers and outside investors. We investigate whether these private meetings benefit hosting firms and their major outside institutional investors, blockholder mutual funds (i.e., funds with ownership ≥ 5 percent). Using a large dataset of SZSE firms, we find that blockholder mutual funds have more access to private in-house meetings, and top management is more likely to be present – especially when a meeting is associated with negative news. Further, when blockholder mutual funds attend negative news meetings with top management, they are less likely to sell shares, their investment relationship with the hosting firm lasts longer, and hosting firms experience lower post-meeting stock return volatility. These findings suggest that private in-house meetings are an informative disclosure channel that improves ‘social bonding’ between top management and blockholder mutual funds in ways that benefit hosting firms.

Keywords: Institutional investors, mutual funds, private in-house meetings, site visits, disclosure, stock volatility, social bonding, trust

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G18, G34, G38, K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bowen, Robert M. and Dutta, Shantanu and Tang, Songlian and Tang, Songlian and Zhu, Phil, Blockholder Mutual Fund Participation in Private In-house Meetings (August 31, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3524559 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3524559
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
L Bebchuk , M Cremers , U Peyer
The CEO pay slice
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , p. 199 - 221 Posted: 2011
A Bird , M Hertzel , S Karolyi , T Ruchti
The value of lending relationships. Working paper Posted: 2020-11
E Blankespoor , G S Miller , H D White
The Role of Dissemination in Market Liquidity: Evidence from Firms' Use of Twitter TM
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , p. 79 - 112 Posted: 2014
A L Boone , J T White
The effect of institutional ownership on firm transparency and information production
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , p. 508 - 533 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,460
RANK
427,290
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies