Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of the Effect of Loan to Deposit Ratio, Non-Performing Loans and Capital Adequacy Ratio on Return on Assets with Good Corporate Governance as Intervening Variable in Banking Companies Listed in the Corporate Governance Perception Index (CGPI) for the Period 2014–2018

Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.3 No.1 (2020)

17 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2020

Viviana Tantiara Arsew

Universitas Trilogi

Zainul Kisman

Universitas Trilogi

Ni Nyoman Sawitri

Universitas Trilogi

Date Written: January 27, 2020

Abstract

The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of loan to deposit ratio (LDR), non-performing loans (NPL), and capital adequacy ratio (CAR) on return on assets (ROA) in banking companies listed on the Indonesian Institute for Corporate Governance (IICG) in 2014-2018. This study uses Good Corporate Governance (GCG) as an Intervening variable. The use of intervening variables GCG in this study is a recent breakthrough in increasing return on assets. The sampling technique is purposive sampling. With this sampling method, the samples used in the study were 10 of the best banking companies implementing Good Corporate Governance registered in The Indonesian Institute for Corporate Governance (IICG) in 2014-2018. This study uses secondary data obtained from SWA Magazine publications. The analysis technique used in this study is path analysis. The results of the first structural equation model that LDR and NPL have a significant negative effect on GCG and CAR has a positive significant effect. The results of the second structural equation model that NPL, CAR, GCG have an influence on ROA, but LDR does not have a significant effect. The implication of this research is that GCG as a very large variable intervening plays a role in banks in increasing ROA.

Keywords: Loan to Deposit Ratio, Non-Performing Loans, Capital Adequacy Ratio, Return on Assets, Good Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Arsew, Viviana Tantiara and Kisman, Zainul and Sawitri, Ni Nyoman, Analysis of the Effect of Loan to Deposit Ratio, Non-Performing Loans and Capital Adequacy Ratio on Return on Assets with Good Corporate Governance as Intervening Variable in Banking Companies Listed in the Corporate Governance Perception Index (CGPI) for the Period 2014–2018 (January 27, 2020). Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.3 No.1 (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3525666
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,052
RANK
38,924
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies