Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Size and Firm Performance: A Study on BSE 100 Companies

Journal of Management (JOM), 6 (3), 2019, pp. 117-123

7 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2020

Purushottam N Vaidya

Research Scholar, P.G. Department of Studies in Commerce, Karnatak University,Dharwad. India

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

The sizes of the board and its impact on the performance have received much attention in corporate governance. Among the several factors that account for firm’s performance, board related issues are one of the most important ones. Human beings work preeminent in groups of a certain size. A board is nothing beyond a group of human beings trying to effort together to generate the best results for the organization.

The present research work aims to examine whether board size has any influence on firm’s financial performance. The study has been conducted for the year 2018-19 for BSE 100 companies. The study considers Return on Assets (ROA), Profit before Interest and Tax(PBIT), Return on Equity (ROE), Earning per share (EPS), Dividend per share (DPS) and Tobin’s Q as measures of financial performance, whereas board size has been taken as an independent variable. The results show that ROA, ROE and Tobin’s Q is more for companies with board size between eight and ten. Also, medium size boards are found to perform better than either very small or very big boards. As regard the impact of board size on firm performance, results suggest that for ROE, ROA, PBIT, EPS, DPS and Tobin’s Q are statistically not significant. The Board size has no impact on the performance of the firm. It would look that the ideal board size as far as human decision making is somewhere between eight and ten. But it’s not that simple.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Financial Performance, Tobin’s Q, BSE 100 Companies and Ideal Board Size

Suggested Citation:

N Vaidya, Purushottam, Board Size and Firm Performance: A Study on BSE 100 Companies (2019). Journal of Management (JOM), 6 (3), 2019, pp. 117-123, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3525368
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Y A Al-Matari , A K Al-Swidi , F H Bt Fadzil , - Al
Board of directors, audit committee characteristics and performance of Saudi Arabia listed companies
International Review of Management and Marketing , volume 2 , p. 241 - 251 Posted: 2012
Sanjai Bhagat , Bernard S. Black
The Non-Correlation between Board Independence and Long-Term Firm Performance
Stanford Law and Economics Olin Working Paper No. 185 Pages: 44 Posted: 3 Oct 1998
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C José García Martín &amp; Begoña Herrero
Boards of directors: composition and effects on the performance of the firm
Economic Research-Ekonomska Istraživanja , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 1015 - 1041 Posted: 2018
N Dwivedi , A K Jain
Corporate governance and performance of Indian firms: The effect of board size and ownership. Employee Responsibilities and Rights , volume 17 , p. 161 - 172 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,635
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,986
RANK
25,513
2 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies