Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Director Remuneration Impacts Firm Performance: An Empirical Analysis of Executive Director Remuneration in Pakistan

Borsa Istanbul Review, Vol 19(2), 186-196, 2019

11 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2020

Ejaz Aslam

Minhaj University

Razali Haron

International Islamic University of Malaysia (IIUM) - Faculty of Economic and Management Sciences

Muhammad Naveed Tahir

University of Lyon 2

Date Written: August 15, 2019

Abstract

This study empirically investigates the interrelationship between pay and performance of CEOs/board of directors in an emerging market, Pakistan. The study uses GMM approach to account for the problem of potential endogeneity and unobserved heterogeneity that arises due to the potential reverse causality (pay and performance) for a sample of non-financial firms listed in the KSE over the period of 2009e2016. This study provides evidence that the pay-performance framework supports the agency theory whereby CEOs/board of directors are compensated for their prior level of market-based performance. In addition, it weakly supports the notion of the steward/tournament theory. Thus, CEOs/board director's remuneration is highly persistent and takes time to adjust to long-run equilibrium.

Keywords: Executive Remuneration; Firm Performance; Corporate Governance; Emerging Market; GMM

JEL Classification: G30; M12; P17; C39

Suggested Citation:

Aslam, Ejaz and Haron, Razali and Tahir, Muhammad Naveed, How Director Remuneration Impacts Firm Performance: An Empirical Analysis of Executive Director Remuneration in Pakistan (August 15, 2019). Borsa Istanbul Review, Vol 19(2), 186-196, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3526192
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
919
RANK
484,103
4 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies