Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managers’ Perception on Factors Impacting Environmental Disclosure

Journal of Management, 6(2), 2019, pp. 219–229

11 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2020

Ranjani Matta

Doctoral Research Scholar Faculty of Management Studies & Research, Aligarh Muslim University Aligarh, UP - 202 002 India

Dr. Javaid Akhter

Professor of Business Administration Faculty of Management Studies & Research, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, UP - 202 002 India

Dr. P. Malarvizhi

Professor, Accounting & Finance IILM Institute for Business and Management, Sector 53 Gurgaon, Haryana 122 003 India

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

This research paper focuses on the current environmental management practices and captures the perception of corporate managers on environmental reporting through a structured questionnaire to understand the factors impacting companies in disclosing environmental information. The data for this research was collected through a questionnaire survey. Analysis of the responses indicates long-term survival, reduction in waste and improved efficiency’ and acknowledging social responsibility as the top reasons for disclosure. Avoid providing sensitive and confidential information, no legal requirement to report and avoid possible damage to company’s reputation were the reasons preventing an organisation from making disclosures. Overall, the findings suggest that the perceptions of both ‘reporter’ and ‘non-reporter’ are similar indicating the existence of other factors that impact disclosure. The findings support both the legitimacy and stakeholder theory as organisations strive for long-term survival and aspire to have a better corporate image.

Keywords: Corporate Environmental Disclosure, Indian Companies, Drivers, Barriers, Survey

Suggested Citation:

Matta, Ranjani and Akhter, Dr. Javaid and Malarvizhi, Dr. P., Managers’ Perception on Factors Impacting Environmental Disclosure (2019). Journal of Management, 6(2), 2019, pp. 219–229, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3526025
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
217
ABSTRACT VIEWS
851
RANK
321,382
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies