Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting in India

Journal of Management, 6(1), 2018, pp. 1-10.

10 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2020

Ghanasham S. Joshi

Assistant Professor, SMBK Govt. First Grade College, Naregal, Dist: Gadag, Karnataka

Raju Laxman Hyderabad

Karnatak University, Post-Graduate Department of Studies in Commerce

Date Written: January 27, 2018

Abstract

Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting (CSR) has gained a lot of importance in recent years. This study is an attempt to investigate various determinants of CSR disclosures in India. The study examines whether CSR disclosures are influenced by a group of factors like size of the company, profitability, leverage, board size and age of the firm. In order to achieve the study objectives, a 20-item CSR Index is designed after rigorous content analysis of annual reports of 199 companies forming part of NIFTY Large Midcap 250 index for seven fiscal years from 2011 to 2017. The findings of the study reveal a positive and significant association between size of the firm, board size and age and CSRD and a negative and insignificant relationship between profitability, leverage and CSRD is also observed

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, CSR Disclosures

Suggested Citation:

S. Joshi, Ghanasham and Hyderabad, Raju Laxman, Determinants of Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting in India (January 27, 2018). Journal of Management, 6(1), 2018, pp. 1-10. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3526122
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
294
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,085
RANK
236,690
4 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Management Practice eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies