Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance the Journey of Indian Corporate World

International Journal of Management, 10 (1), January-February 2019, pp. 26-32

7 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2020

Professor Subha Kant Padhi

Xavier Institute of Management Bhubaneswar Xavier Square, Jaydev Vihar, Bhubaneswar Odisha, India

Date Written: January 28, 2019

Abstract

Like many other regulations, which have been enacted to develop a control mechanism, the corporate governance rules, regulations and guidelines have come into fore to regulate, if not control, the corporate misdeeds/misdealings. Be it the boardroom fight or the CEO and CFO conievance or the management-auditor hand in glove story, each has lead to some corporate fraud or disruption. In this preocess, the biggest loser has been the investor, who ultimately bears the brunt of the mismanagement or deficit in governance of the corporate affairs. This is a global phenomenon and India being a part of the global economy, also suffers from such deficits. There are many regulations in the international scenario. The most important ones are the OECD guidelines, SOX of USA, Cadbury Committee report of UK. In India SEBI has formulated many rules including the listing agreement under clause 49 based on the recommendations of different committees. Through this study an attempt has been made to understand how the framework has evolved over a period of time in India and how many of the large sized accounting frauds have taken place due to poor corporate governance mechanism in place.

Keywords: Cadbury Committee, Corporate governance, India, OECD principles, SEBI

Suggested Citation:

Kant Padhi, Professor Subha, Corporate Governance the Journey of Indian Corporate World (January 28, 2019). International Journal of Management, 10 (1), January-February 2019, pp. 26-32, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3526715
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Cadbury Committee Report , volume 27 Posted: 1992-05
Crossref
Principles of Corporate Governance Posted: 1999
Crossref
Confederation of Indian Industry, Desirable Corporate Governance Posted: 1998-03
Sarbanes Oxley Act Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
871
RANK
601,090
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies