Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Foreign Component Auditors Harm Financial Reporting Quality? A Subsidiary-Level Analysis of Foreign Component Auditor Use

Contemporary Accounting Research, Conditionally Accepted

54 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2020 Last revised: 6 May 2021

William Docimo

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Joshua L. Gunn

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Chan Li

University of Kansas

Paul N. Michas

University of Arizona - Eller College of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 4, 2021

Abstract

We hypothesize and find that financial reporting quality at the foreign subsidiaries of U.S. multinational corporations (MNCs) is higher when the MNC’s principal auditor engages a component auditor to audit the foreign subsidiary on its behalf. An important innovation of this study is that we focus on comparing financial reporting quality of equivalent subsidiaries with and without component auditor work. Our approach contrasts with extant studies that examine the consequences of variation in the total amount of component auditor work at the MNC level. Our results are important for two reasons. First, we provide an alternative view on the consequences of component auditor use compared to the emerging literature in this area, which typically finds a negative association between the extent of component auditor use and financial reporting quality at the MNC level. Thus, we show that a different research design, conducted at the level at which component auditors actually perform their work, yields different inferences. Second, we demonstrate that using component auditors on U.S. MNC group audits is an avenue through which U.S. auditing institutions can affect financial reporting quality in foreign locations. We also reconcile our subsidiary-level results to the MNC-level by introducing a new MNC-level component auditor “coverage” variable. Overall, we highlight that the best way to audit a foreign subsidiary is likely to be with a component auditor in the local country, which informs the debate surrounding recently proposed PCAOB guidance.

Keywords: audit quality; component auditor; financial reporting quality; group audit; multinational corporation; Public Company Accounting Oversight Board

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Docimo, William and Gunn, Joshua L. and Li, Chan and Michas, Paul N., Do Foreign Component Auditors Harm Financial Reporting Quality? A Subsidiary-Level Analysis of Foreign Component Auditor Use (May 4, 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research, Conditionally Accepted, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3526388 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3526388
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
A A Acito , J J Burks , W B Johnson
Materiality Decisions and the Correction of Accounting Errors
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 659 - 88 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Xi Ai , Lauren M. Cunningham , Xiao Li , Linda A. Myers
How Can Small International Accounting Firms Improve Audit Quality? The Role of Accounting Associations and Networks
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, volume 44, issue 3, 2025[<a href="https://doi.org/10.2308/AJPT-2022-173" rel="nofollow">10.2308/AJPT-2022-173</a>] Pages: 52 Posted: 25 Jun 2019 Last revised: 21 Aug 2025
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
AICPA). 2019. AU-C Section 600 -Special Considerations-Audits of Group Financial Statements (including the work of component auditors
Crossref
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 74 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
383
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,173
RANK
177,110
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies