Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insights into Auditor Public Oversight Boards: Whether, How, and Why they 'Work'

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

88 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2020 Last revised: 14 Apr 2022

Michelle Hanlon

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Nemit Shroff

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: March 29, 2022

Abstract

We survey 170 inspectors, representing 27% of the inspection staff, from auditor public oversight boards (POBs) in 20 countries to understand whether, how, and why auditors respond to POB oversight. We find that a large majority of inspectors believe that auditors frequently respond to their feedback by changing audit procedures and quality control systems. Inspectors perceive inspections to have broad effects on several aspects of auditing, ranging from documentation to the removal of partners. Some inspectors perceive that auditors place greater weight on keeping fees low than on increasing audit quality. Inspectors also believe that auditors on occasion ‘fix’ closed audit files before an inspection, and in rare instances obtain confidential information about upcoming inspections. Inspectors think that the primary reasons why auditors respond to POB feedback are (1) public disclosure, (2) enforcement capabilities, (3) POBs being perceived as authoritative, and (4) POBs having a culture for detecting auditing deficiencies.

Keywords: Regulation, PCAOB, Audit quality, Enforcement, Disclosure, Financial reporting, Public oversight boards, Self-regulation

JEL Classification: M41, M42, K22

Suggested Citation:

Hanlon, Michelle and Shroff, Nemit, Insights into Auditor Public Oversight Boards: Whether, How, and Why they 'Work' (March 29, 2022). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3527584 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3527584
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
D Anantharaman
Comparing self-regulation and statutory regulation: Evidence from the accounting profession
Accounting Organizations and Society , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 55 - 77 Posted: 2012
D Aobdia
The Impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection process-preliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia
The economic consequences of audit firms' quality control system deficiencies
Management Science , volume 66 , issue 7 , p. 2883 - 2905 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia , Y Dou , J Kim
Public audit oversight and the originate-to-distribute model
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
572
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,681
RANK
109,744
34 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies