Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Directors More Likely to Relinquish Their Riskiest Directorships after the Financial Crisis?

Journal of Corporate Finance, Vol. 53, 2018

IESE Business School Working Paper No. ART-3198-E

Posted: 26 Feb 2020

Gaizka Ormazabal

University of Navarra, IESE Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Date Written: March 1, 2018

Abstract

This paper documents that directors exhibit a strong tendency to resign from their riskiest directorships in the period subsequent to the financial crisis of 2007–2008. I also find that, in the post-crisis period, riskier directorships become more costly for directors and that the post-crisis director turnover alters board characteristics at riskier firms. While directors departing from their riskiest directorships are more experienced, hold more boards, and are better connected than other departing directors, no such pattern is observed among replacing directors. Finally, I find that departures from riskiest directorships are associated with lower announcement returns. Overall, my results suggest that, after the crisis, the costs of serving on risky boards have increased to the point of inducing board turnover that results in a non-trivial reshaping of corporate boards.

Keywords: Directorship risk, Director turnover, Risk oversight, Corporate governance, Risk management, Financial crisis

JEL Classification: G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Ormazabal, Gaizka, Are Directors More Likely to Relinquish Their Riskiest Directorships after the Financial Crisis? (March 1, 2018). Journal of Corporate Finance, Vol. 53, 2018, IESE Business School Working Paper No. ART-3198-E, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3527535
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
532
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IESE Business School Working Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies