Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit Expectation Gap and Auditing Around the Computer

14 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2020

Tamer Aly ElNashar

The American University in Cairo

Date Written: January 30, 2020

Abstract

This paper predicts the internal auditing expectation gap to be narrow when internally auditing around the computer in all types of organizations. I sit the hypothesis of this paper in relation to the current issues of auditing around the computer, associated with the field of new information technology. I predict a narrow internal auditing expectation gap, as a result of an estimated percentage in the area of internal auditing and control. I used a decision tree and a Bayes' theorem approach, to predict the probabilities of investors and users of financial statements along with the internal management to have a narrow expectation gap for internal auditing around the computer. I find the overall result of this paper indicates that the probability of organizations to have a narrow expectation gap is of significant percentage, and also predicts that organization should have a significant improvement in internal auditing around the computer.

Keywords: internal auditing, expectation gap, auditing around the computer

Suggested Citation:

ElNashar, Tamer Aly, Internal Audit Expectation Gap and Auditing Around the Computer (January 30, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3528088 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3528088
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
378
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,465
RANK
179,657
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies