Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Communication in M&A Conference Calls: Topic Modelling Analysis of Transcripts

76 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2020 Last revised: 1 Dec 2024

Sudipto Dasgupta

Chinese University of Hong Kong, ABFER, CEPR, and ECGI

Jarrad Harford

University of Washington; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Fangyuan Ma

Peking University HSBC Business School

Daisy Wang

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Finance

Haojun Xie

the Chinese University of Hong Kong

Date Written: December 01, 2024

Abstract

We study the role of conference calls in mergers and acquisitions (M&As) on perceived deal value and deal completion. We analyze how managers’ discretionary disclosure choices, particularly the precision of information shared, are associated with investor perceptions and deal outcomes in equilibrium. To measure disclosure precision, we adopt topic modelling to analyze call transcripts. We find that depending on the managerial objectives of disclosure in different types of deals, precise disclosures (“hard” information) are related to better market outcomes, while less precise disclosure (“soft” information) are linked to higher deal completion rates, despite potential negative reactions from acquirer shareholders. Our findings underscore the importance of strategic communication in M&A contexts. 

Keywords: Strategic disclosure, Mergers and acquisitions, Conference calls, Information content

Suggested Citation:

Dasgupta, Sudipto and Harford, Jarrad and Ma, Fangyuan and Wang, Daisy and Xie, Haojun, Strategic Communication in M&A Conference Calls: Topic Modelling Analysis of Transcripts (December 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3528016 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3528016
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,026
RANK
45,009
2 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies