Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Financial Ratios and Financial Characteristics Affect Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure?

Acc. Fin. Review 4 (4) 114 – 119 (2019)

6 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2020

Silvy Christina

Trisakti School of Management

Fanny Anggraeni

Trisakti School of Management, Indonesia

Date Written: December 31, 2019

Abstract

Objective - The business world requires that companies not only focus on management and owners, but also that they pay attention to the sustainability of the social environment. This concept is better known as Corporate Social Responsibility. The purpose of this study is to obtain empirical evidence about the factors which influence corporate social responsibility.

Methodology/Technique - The independent variables used in this research are: board size, firm size, profitability, liquidity, public ownership, and firm age. The objects used in this study are non-financial companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange (IDX) between 2016 and 2018. The data selected as a research sample of 183 non-financial companies. Sample selection procedures can be obtained from the results of purposive sampling.

Finding - The results show that board size, firm size, and profitability all have an influence on corporate social responsibility disclosure. On the other hand, liquidity, public ownership, and firm age have no influence on corporate social responsibility.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility; Board Size; Firm Size; Profitability; Liquidity; Public Ownership; Firm Age

JEL Classification: M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Christina, Silvy and Anggraeni, Fanny, Do Financial Ratios and Financial Characteristics Affect Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure? (December 31, 2019). Acc. Fin. Review 4 (4) 114 – 119 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3528346
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
M Al-Ajmi , A Al-Mutairi , N Al-Duwaila
Corporate social disclosure practices in Kuwait
International Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 7 , issue 9 , p. 244 - 254 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Badjuri
Fundamental factors, corporate governance mechanisms, disclosure of corporate social responsibility (CSR) manufacturing companies and natural resources in Indonesia. Financial and Banking Dynamics , volume 3 , p. 38 - 54 Posted: 2011
U Sekaran , R Bougie
Research methods for business: A skill building approach
Chariri and Imam Ghozali. 2014. Accounting Theory Posted: 2016
A Dias , L L Rodrigues , R Craig , M E Neves
Corporate social responsibility disclosure in small and medium-sized entities and large companies
Social Responsibility Journal Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
758
RANK
622,944
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies