Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Concerns About the Quality and Influence of Proxy Advisors, and Its Implications for the Preparations of the Shareholders Meeting

20 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2020

Albert Verdam

VU University in Amsterdam

Date Written: February 3, 2020

Abstract

After highlighting the importance of the votes cast by institutional investors in shareholders meetings of listed companies, and the role proxy advisors play in this respect, this article turns to the points of criticism that are strongly emphasized in American literature, as well as to the state of regulation on both sides of the Atlantic, also including the stern action the SEC has been taken recently with respect to proxy advisors. On the basis of a questionnaire issued to Dutch listed companies, I shed light on the perception of listed companies of the actions of proxy advisory services. I will conclude with a few reflective remarks, also about the consequences of the growing role of proxy advisors for the preparation of the shareholders meeting dynamics surrounding the shareholders meeting.

Keywords: proxy advisers, shareholders meetings, institutional investors

Suggested Citation:

Verdam, Albert, Concerns About the Quality and Influence of Proxy Advisors, and Its Implications for the Preparations of the Shareholders Meeting (February 3, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3531180 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3531180
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
867
RANK
439,204
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies