Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Framework for Product Impact-Weighted Accounts

Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 20-076

43 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2020 Last revised: 28 Oct 2020

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Katie Trinh

Brown University, Department of Economics, Students

Date Written: October 27, 2020

Abstract

While there has been significant progress in the measurement of an organization’s environmental and social impacts from their operations, metrics to evaluate the impact of products once they come to market lag far behind. In this paper we provide a framework for systematic measurement of product impact in monetary terms and delve into the rationale for the framework’s seven elements. We then apply the whole framework to two competitor companies to show the feasibility of measuring product impact and the actionability of the framework. We indicate the value of impact-weighted financial statement analysis with examples of insights enabled by industry-wide product impact measurement. We see our results as a first step, rather than a definitive answer, towards more systematic measurement of product impact in monetary terms that can then be reflected in financial statements with the purpose of creating impact-weighted financial accounts.

Keywords: impact measurement; product impact; ESG; accounting; metrics

JEL Classification: M41, M14

Suggested Citation:

Serafeim, George and Trinh, Katie, A Framework for Product Impact-Weighted Accounts (October 27, 2020). Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 20-076, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3532472 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3532472
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
0% 1%
Posted: 2015
Crossref
Change in Asset Turnover
Crossref
Load more
5 Citations
Addisu A. Lashitew
Corporate uptake of the Sustainable Development Goals: Mere greenwashing or an advent of institutional change?
Journal of International Business Policy , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 184 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Tracy Van Holt , Martin Delaroche , Ulrich Atz , Kevin Eckerle
Financial benefits of reimagined, sustainable, agrifood supply networks
Journal of International Business Policy , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 102 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Luisa De Amicis , Silvia Binenti , Felipe Maciel Cardoso , Carlos Gracia-Lázaro , Ángel Sánchez , Yamir Moreno
Understanding drivers when investing for impact: an experimental study
Palgrave Communications , volume 6 , issue 1 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Addisu Lashitew
Corporate Uptake of the Sustainable Development Goals: Mere Greenwashing or an Advent of Institutional Change?
17 Pages · Posted: 25 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 26 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 1,317
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,513
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,184
RANK
28,640
5 Citations
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies