Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Standards and Co-operatives: Proposed Solutions to the Problem of AASB 132

Business Council of Co-operatives and Mutuals, 2016

Monash University Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 3533642

20 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2020

Duncan Wallace

Monash University - Faculty of Law

Date Written: May 2016

Abstract

This paper provides the first comprehensive overview of the effect of accounting standards on co-operatives in Australia. I define what a co-operative is before outlining the legal regime in place for the application of accounting standards to co-operatives. I then outline the problems co-operatives have with current accounting standards – particularly AASB 132 - before suggesting six potential solutions. I shall conclude that the most appropriate solution is to develop a separate set of accounting standards purposefully designed for co-operative and mutual enterprises.

Keywords: accounting, co-operatives, mutuals

Suggested Citation:

Wallace, Duncan, Accounting Standards and Co-operatives: Proposed Solutions to the Problem of AASB 132 (May 2016). Business Council of Co-operatives and Mutuals, 2016, Monash University Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 3533642, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3533642 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3533642
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
660
RANK
785,362
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Monash University Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies