Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Diversity, Corporate Governance, Performance and Executive Pay

Sarhan, A.A., Ntim, C.G., and Al-Najjar, B., ‘Corporate Board Diversity, Corporate Governance, Corporate Performance and Executive Pay’, International Journal of Finance and Economics, 24(2), 761-786, 2019

49 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2020

Ahmed Sarhan

Northumbria University

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Basil Al‐Najjar

University of London - School of Business, Economics and Informatics

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

Departing from previous studies, this paper investigates the impact of corporate board diversity on corporate performance and executive pay within the context of MENA countries. Our sample includes a balanced panel of 600 firm-year observations, consisting of 100 individual firms drawn from 5 Middle Eastern countries (Egypt, Jordan, Oman, Saudi Arabia and United Arab of Emirates) over the 2009–2014 period. The findings are three-fold. First, board diversity, as measured by director gender and nationality, has a positive effect on corporate financial performance. Second, the relationship between board diversity and corporate performance is stronger in better-governed firms than their poorly-governed counterparts. Finally, board diversity, as measured by director gender, ethnicity and nationality, enhances the pay-for-performance sensitivity, but not the actual executive pay. Our results suggest that decisions about board diversity are not merely influenced by moral values; they arise because of the cost-benefit considerations of what diversity can bring to the firm. The findings are robust to controlling for different alternatives of board diversity measures, corporate governance proxies, corporate outcomes and types of endogeneities.

Keywords: Economics and Finance; Financial and Governance Reforms; Corporate Governance; Corporate Board Diversity; Corporate Performance; Executive Pay; Mena Countries

JEL Classification: G30; G32; G14

Suggested Citation:

Sarhan, Ahmed and Ntim, Collins G. and Al-Najjar, Basil, Board Diversity, Corporate Governance, Performance and Executive Pay (2019). Sarhan, A.A., Ntim, C.G., and Al-Najjar, B., ‘Corporate Board Diversity, Corporate Governance, Corporate Performance and Executive Pay’, International Journal of Finance and Economics, 24(2), 761-786, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3534932 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3534932
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
S N Abdullah
The causes of gender diversity in Malaysian large firms
Journal of Management & Governance , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1137 - 1159 Posted: 2014
Crossref
D Acemoglu , T A Hassan , A Tahoun
The power of the street: Evidence from egypt's arab spring
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 42 Posted: 2017
Crossref
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
18 Citations
Afra Al Hameli , Charilaos Mertzanis , Ilias Kampouris
Women’s empowerment conditions, institutions and firm performance in the MENA region
Accounting Forum , volume 48 , issue 4 , p. 635 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Chien-Chiang Lee , Xueli Wen
How Does Exchange Rate Policy Uncertainty Affect Corporate Performance: Evidence from China
Emerging Markets Finance and Trade , volume 59 , issue 9 , p. 3060 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Erica Poma , Barbara Pistoresi
Do women on boards break the glass ceiling or face the glass cliff?
Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society , volume 24 , issue 8 , p. 22 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Thi Hong Hahn Nguyen , Collins G. Ntim , John Malagila
Women on Corporate Boards and Corporate Financial and Non-financial Performance: A Systematic Literature Review and Future Research Agenda
Nguyen, T.H.H., Ntim, C.G., & Malagila, J. (2020). ‘Women on corporate boards and corporate financial and non-financial performance: A systematic literature review and future research agenda’, International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming., · 60 Pages · Posted: 14 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 482
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
676
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,121
RANK
88,471
18 Citations
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies