Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Ownership Structure, Cash Holding and Tax Avoidance on Income Smoothing

Nico Alexander. 2019. The Effect of Ownership Structure, Cash Holding and Tax Avoidance on Income Smoothing, J. Fin. Bank. Review, 4 (3): 128 – 134 DOI:10.35609/jfbr.2019.4.4(3)

7 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2020

Nico Alexander

Trisakti School of Management

Date Written: December 31, 2019

Abstract

Objective - This study aims to undertake an empirical study of the influence of ownership structure, cash holding, and tax avoidance on income smoothing.

Methodology/Technique – Ownership structure in this research is measured by public ownership and managerial ownership. The population of this research are manufacturing companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange (IDX) between 2015-2017 and there are 50 companies that meet the criteria and serve as the research sample. The sample selection in this study uses purposive sampling and the hypotheses were tested using binary logistics.

Findings – The results of this study show that managerial ownership and public ownership, cash holding by companies and tax avoidance do not have influence on income smoothing. These results show that managerial ownership and public ownership do not affect income smoothing because there are same interest, to improve their wealth. Similarly, neither how much cash is held by a company nor tax avoidance behavior effect income smoothing.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Income Smoothing; Ownership Structure; Cash Holding; Tax Avoidance

JEL Classification: G23; G28

Suggested Citation:

Alexander, Nico, The Effect of Ownership Structure, Cash Holding and Tax Avoidance on Income Smoothing (December 31, 2019). Nico Alexander. 2019. The Effect of Ownership Structure, Cash Holding and Tax Avoidance on Income Smoothing, J. Fin. Bank. Review, 4 (3): 128 – 134 DOI:10.35609/jfbr.2019.4.4(3), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3534120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
N Azlina
Analysis of Factors Affecting Profit Management (Studies in Companies Listed on the IDX)
Journal of Economic and Business Education , volume 2 , issue 3 Posted: 2010
H Vander Bauwhede , M Willekens , A Gaeremynck
Audit firm size, public ownership, and firms' discretionary accruals management. The international journal of accounting , volume 38 , p. 4 - 9 Posted: 2003
Crossref
I Budiasih
Factors that influence income smoothing practices. scientific journal of accounting and business Posted: 2009
S J Carlson , C T Bathala
Ownership differences and firms' income smoothing behavior
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 196 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
759
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,010
RANK
76,350
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies