Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt Covenants and Corporate Governance

Annual Review of Financial Economics Vol. 11:197-219 (Volume publication date December 2019)

Indian School of Business WP Forthcoming

Posted: 9 Mar 2020

Sudheer Chava

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Shunlan Fang

Kent State University; Kent State University; Temple University - Department of Accounting

Praveen Kumar

University of Houston - Department of Finance

Saumya Prabhat

Indian School of Business (ISB), Hyderabad

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

We review the recent theoretical and empirical literature on debt covenants with a particular focus on how creditor governance after covenant violations can influence the borrower's corporate policies. From the theoretical literature, we identify the key trade-offs that help explain the observed heterogeneity in covenant types, inclusion, likelihood of violation, and post violation renegotiation flexibility. Empirically, we first review the literature that deals with ex ante evidence on covenant design and the various factors that influence covenant design; we next review the ex post evidence on the impact of technical covenant violations on the borrower. We then discuss limitations of the existing theoretical and empirical studies and conclude with some directions for future research in this burgeoning area.

Keywords: debt covenants, corporate finance, corporate governance, covenant violations, control rights

JEL Classification: G32, G33

Suggested Citation:

Chava, Sudheer and Fang, Shunlan and Kumar, Praveen and Prabhat, Saumya, Debt Covenants and Corporate Governance (2019). Annual Review of Financial Economics Vol. 11:197-219 (Volume publication date December 2019), Indian School of Business WP Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3534276
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,166
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies