Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and the Market Reaction to Negative Events: Evidence from Inadvertent and Fraudulent Restatement Announcements

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming March 2021

56 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2020 Last revised: 28 Apr 2020

Eli Bartov

NYU Stern School of Business

Antonio Marra

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Francesco Momente'

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 8, 2019

Abstract

We advance a theory asserting that CSR performance may exacerbate, not necessarily moderate, a company’s negative stock-price response to negative events. In testing this theory, we hypothesize and find that CSR performance alleviates (magnifies) the immediate negative market response to inadvertent (fraudulent) restatement announcements, and that these findings are robust to specifications that consider alternative CSR measures and a multitude of control variables shown by prior research to have explanatory power for the cross sectional variation in stock returns. Overall, using restatement announcements as a channel through which CSR performance may affect company value, we show, in contrast to prior research, that depending on management conduct leading to the restatement, a company’s CSR performance may destroy, not necessarily enhance, firm value. Our findings may, thus, inform researchers, market participants, and regulators.

Keywords: negative events; accounting restatements; corporate social responsibility; accounting fraud; inadvertent accounting errors.

Suggested Citation:

Bartov, Eli and Marra, Antonio and Momente', Francesco, Corporate Social Responsibility and the Market Reaction to Negative Events: Evidence from Inadvertent and Fraudulent Restatement Announcements (December 8, 2019). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming March 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3534722 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3534722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). 1980. Qualitative Characteristics of Accounting Information. Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts
Crossref
M Friedman
The social responsibility of business is to increase its profits. The New York Times , volume 13 , p. 122 - 126 Posted: 1970-09
Crossref
A Ghosh , A Marra , D Moon
Corporate Boards, Audit Committees, and Earnings Management: Pre-and Post-SOX Evidence , volume 37 , p. 1145 - 1176 Posted: 2010
Crossref
P C Godfrey
The relationship between corporate philanthropy and shareholder wealth: a risk management perspective
Academy of Management Review , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 777 - 798 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,865
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,407
RANK
20,821
28 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies