Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Moderating Effect of Internal Control on Performance of Cross-Border M&A under the Uncertainty of Economic Policy: Evidence from China

Journal of Korea Trade Vol. 23, No. 7, November 2019, 128-146

19 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2020

Xiao-Lin Huang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Guanting Chen

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Eun-Hye Lee

Pai Chai University - Department of Global Business and Trade

Date Written: November 20, 2019

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to investigate the relationship between internal control, economic policy uncertainty, and performance of cross-border merger and acquisition (M&A) based on the panel data of Chinese listed firms. The authors expected that internal control has a positive moderating effect on the performance of cross-border M&A and that it mainly occurs during periods when economic policies are relatively stable. In addition, the authors tried to find out the mechanism of internal control affecting cross-border M&A and the corporate performance.

Design/methodology – The authors tested the hypotheses by a multivariate regression model based on the panel data of Chinese listed firms from 2009 to 2017. The dependent variable is the change value of business performance (DROA_1,2,3) and the explanatory variables are cross-border M&A (MA), China’s uncertainty of economic policy (EPU), and internal control level (IC) respectively.

Findings – The authors find that internal control has a positive moderating effect on the relationship between cross-border M&A and corporate performance. Further, the authors find that the moderating effect is more significant in state-owned enterprises and that it mainly occurs during periods when economic policies are relatively stable.

Originality/value – This paper is the leading study that tries to analyze empirically the relationship between internal control, economic policy uncertainty, and performance of cross-border M&A. It provides a new avenue through which internal control might reasonably mitigate the risks of crossborder M&A and correspondingly improve the performance of cross-border M&A. It also confirms the moderating effect of internal control on the performance of cross-border M&A under the uncertainty of economic policy.

Keywords: Internal Control, Moderating Effect, Performance of Cross-border M&A, Uncertainty of Economic Policy

JEL Classification: F21, G34, G38, L25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Xiao-Lin and Chen, Guanting and Lee, Eun-Hye, The Moderating Effect of Internal Control on Performance of Cross-Border M&A under the Uncertainty of Economic Policy: Evidence from China (November 20, 2019). Journal of Korea Trade Vol. 23, No. 7, November 2019, 128-146, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3534858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
K R Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in Translation? the Effect of Cultural Values on Mergers Around the World
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R Albuquerque , L Brandao-Marques , M A Ferreira , P Matos
International Corporate Governance Spillovers: Evidence from Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions
Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 738 - 770 Posted: 2018
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Kinney , R William , Lafond
The Effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies and Their Remediation on Accrual Quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The Effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies on Firm Risk and Cost of Equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
233
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,261
RANK
299,785
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies