Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Shareholders Assess Managers’ Use of Accruals to Manage Earnings as a Negative Signal of Trustworthiness Even When its Outcome Serves Shareholders’ Interests?

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 23 Feb 2020

Max Hewitt

University of Arizona - Eller College of Management

Frank D. Hodge

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Jamie H. Pratt

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 28, 2020

Abstract

We examine how shareholders’ trust in managers is affected by the outcome of earnings management (inconsistent vs. consistent with shareholders’ interests) and the method of earnings management (accruals vs. real methods). Using a controlled experiment, we predict and find that trust is impaired when the outcome of earnings management suggests that managers have put their interests above shareholders’ interests and/or when the method of earnings management suggests that managers misreported the firm’s economic performance. We argue that shareholders assess managers putting their interests above shareholders’ interests as a signal of untrustworthiness because it involves a transfer of the firm’s resources away from shareholders to managers. We argue that shareholders also assess managers’ use of accruals to manage earnings as a signal of untrustworthiness because, in this instance, managers misreport the firm’s economic performance. Finally, we show that trust mediates the combined effects of the outcome of earnings management and the method of earnings management on investment decisions. Our study incrementally contributes to the literature by highlighting the adverse implications of managers’ use of accruals to manage earnings even when its outcome serves shareholders’ interests.

Keywords: earnings management, shareholders’ interests, accruals, trust, investment decisions

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hewitt, Max and Hodge, Frank Douglas and Pratt, James H., Do Shareholders Assess Managers’ Use of Accruals to Manage Earnings as a Negative Signal of Trustworthiness Even When its Outcome Serves Shareholders’ Interests? (January 28, 2020). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3535774
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
729
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies