Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Turning Board Sustainability Aspirations into Action

INSEAD Working Paper No. 2020/08/ATL

21 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2020

N. Craig Smith

INSEAD

Ron Soonieus

INSEAD

Date Written: February 11, 2020

Abstract

Boards are key to unlocking substantive action by firms on sustainability. We clarify their potential role and show how and why they are failing to deliver on that role and what can be done about it. We start by highlighting the importance of board engagement as a driver of sustainability and then report research evidence of limited board attention to the topic. This is short-sighted given the significance of sustainability but also as a matter of good corporate governance. Nonetheless, recent survey research provides encouraging evidence to suggest that many boards have the right aspirations when it comes to sustainability—they are convinced it is a strategic necessity. Often, however, they do not have what is required in terms of the people, knowledge and tools to turn those aspirations into meaningful action. Our in-depth interviews with board directors examined the obstacles to board attention to sustainability from inside the boardroom, including the characteristics of board members themselves. We identified five board sustainability archetypes: The Deniers, The Hard-headed, The Well-Meaning, The Complacent, and The True Believers. We characterize each archetype and explain how they can be identified by executives or consultants working with the board or by board members themselves. We offer recommendations for how to respond to the different archetypes and how more generally boards can advance the sustainability agenda.

Suggested Citation:

Smith, N. Craig and Soonieus, Ron, Turning Board Sustainability Aspirations into Action (February 11, 2020). INSEAD Working Paper No. 2020/08/ATL, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3536342 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3536342
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
4 Citations
Borna Jalsenjak
Encyclopedia of Sustainable Management
, p. 1 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Wanyoung Lee , Yoonso Choi
Examining Plogging in South Korea as a New Social Movement: From the Perspective of Claus Offe’s New Social Movement Theory
International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health , volume 20 , issue 5 , p. 4469 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Borna Jalsenjak
Encyclopedia of Sustainable Management
, p. 3307 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Fadwa El Chalfoun
Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
984
RANK
461,853
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

INSEAD Working Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies