Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Regulation and the Cost of Equity Capital: Evidence From the PCAOB’s International Inspection Regime

52 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2020

Phillip T. Lamoreaux

Arizona State University

Nathan J. Newton

Florida State University

Landon M. Mauler

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 30, 2019

Abstract

This study investigates the relation between audit regulation and the cost of equity capital. While a relation is intuitively appealing, there is a general lack of empirical evidence because changes in audit regulation are frequently accompanied by other major regulatory changes. We exploit variation in the timing of regulatory changes induced by foreign governments’ staggered allowance of PCAOB inspections. Using a difference-in-differences design, we find that foreign SEC registrants with auditors from countries that allow PCAOB inspections enjoy a lower cost of capital, relative to foreign SEC registrants with auditors from countries that prohibit inspections. Further, we find that this cost of capital effect is attenuated for companies with higher quality existing governance mechanisms. Finally, we document that inspection access is associated with higher quality analyst forecasts, which suggests that this change in audit regulation reduces information risk for market participants.

Keywords: Audit Regulation; Audit Policy; PCAOB; Cost of Capital; International

JEL Classification: M40; M42; K22; K33; G28

Suggested Citation:

Lamoreaux, Phillip T. and Newton, Nathan J. and Mauler, Landon M., Audit Regulation and the Cost of Equity Capital: Evidence From the PCAOB’s International Inspection Regime (October 30, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3536406 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3536406
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
C S Armstrong , K Balakrishnan , D Cohen
Corporate governance and the information environment: Evidence from state antitakeover laws
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 185 - 204 Posted: 2012
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , Jr , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies on firm risk and cost of equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Baumann
Auditing: Perspectives on its role, relevance and reliability
Speech at the University of South Florida Accounting Circle Conference Posted: 2014-05-29
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,295
RANK
337,747
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies