Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relative Role of Firm Incentives, Auditor Specialization, and Country Factors as Antecedents of Non-financial Audit Quality

Forthcoming in Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, DOI/10.2308/ajpt-18-085

58 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2020

Nicola Dalla Via

Free University of Bozen-Bolzano

Paolo Perego

Free University of Bozen-Bolzano

Date Written: January 2020

Abstract

This paper examines the antecedents of non-financial audit quality in the novel setting of sustainability assurance (SA). We proxy SA quality by a content analysis of the information disclosed in approximately 1,200 publicly available SA statements issued by a panel of G500 global firms in the period 2005-2013. Our findings indicate that a higher emphasis on stakeholder engagement and executive compensation schemes linked to sustainability targets are significant internal client incentives for enhanced levels of SA quality. Our study also confirms the importance of supply-side factors, such as auditor competence and auditor specialization, in explaining the heterogeneity of (non-financial) audit quality. SA quality appears to be further strengthened if a country's institutional environment privileges the enforcement of a legal infrastructure aimed at the protection of social and environmental dimensions of corporate practices. Our results suggest that the complement view of governance mechanisms proposed by Doidge, Karolyi, and Stulz (2007) applies in this emergent non-financial auditing market.

Keywords: sustainability assurance, audit quality, corporate social responsibility, non-financial reporting

JEL Classification: M41, M49, M14

Suggested Citation:

Dalla Via, Nicola and Perego, Paolo, The Relative Role of Firm Incentives, Auditor Specialization, and Country Factors as Antecedents of Non-financial Audit Quality (January 2020). Forthcoming in Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, DOI/10.2308/ajpt-18-085, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3537535
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Accountability
AA1000 Assurance Standard. London: AccountAbility Posted: 2003
Accountability
AA 1000 Assurance Standard practitioners note Posted: 2003
Accountancy Europe
The future of corporate reporting -creating the dynamics for change Posted: 2015
Accountancy Europe
How to respond to assurance needs on non-financial information Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
365
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,479
RANK
186,854
6 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies