Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Charter for the Chair: A Discussion on the Mandate of a Separate Chairman for Boards and the Expected Role-Play

7 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2020

Sikha Bansal

Vinod Kothari Consultants P Ltd

Date Written: January 30, 2020

Abstract

The chairman is seen as the leader, mentor and monitor of the board, and is expected to impart an independent perspective across the organisation. As such, there are views that the chairman should not be an executive. Accordingly, in India, the capital market regulator, SEBI had mandated top 500 listed companies to ensure that the chairperson of the board of a listed entity shall be a non-executive director and should be unrelated to the managing director or the CEO. While the mandate has been deferred to 2022, the question as to necessity and effectiveness of the decision will be answered only in times to come. If one explores, the academic debate with respect to the issue is quite rich, with arguments in favour as well as against the separation of roles of chairman and executive.

This article makes an attempt to discuss the pros and cons and also, what can be expected of a chairman vis-à-vis a director simplicitor.

Suggested Citation:

Bansal, Sikha, Charter for the Chair: A Discussion on the Mandate of a Separate Chairman for Boards and the Expected Role-Play (January 30, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3538977 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3538977
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,026
RANK
448,944
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies