Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Internal Control in Financial Reporting

23 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2020 Last revised: 23 Mar 2020

Moayad Homsi

Independent

Date Written: October 1, 2017

Abstract

Preparing reliable financial information is a key responsibility of the management of every company. The ability to effectively manage the company’s business requires access to timely and accurate information. Moreover, investors must be able to place confidence in a company’s financial reports if the company wants to raise capital in the public securities markets.

Management’s ability to fulfill its financial reporting responsibilities depends in part on the design and effectiveness of the processes and safeguards it has put in place over accounting and financial reporting. Without such controls, it would be extremely difficult for most business organizations especially those with numerous locations, operations, and processes to prepare timely and reliable financial reports for management, investors, lenders, and other users. While no practical control system can absolutely assure that financial reports will never contain material errors or misstatements, an effective system of internal control over financial reporting can substantially reduce the risk of such misstatements and inaccuracies in a company’s financial statements.

Over time, effective internal control over financial reporting has become a legal obligation. Since 1977, federal law has required public companies to establish and maintain a system of internal control that provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 added a requirement, applicable to most public companies, that management annually assess the effectiveness of the company’s ICFR and report the results to the public. In addition, the Act requires most large public companies to engage their independent auditor to audit the effectiveness of the company’s ICFR.


Keywords: Charisma University, Moayad Homsi

Suggested Citation:

Homsi, Moayad, The Internal Control in Financial Reporting (October 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3540049 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3540049
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
• Different types of customers such wholesale, retail, distributor, consumer, and related parties. • All accounting records, documents, data and procedures
T questions can facilitate the identification of accounting and internal control procedures: • Can goods be shipped to customers with bad credit? • Can sales be invoiced but not recorded? • Can adjustments to customers' accounts be made without approval? • Could lapping occur and go undetected? • Can past due accounts go undetected? INVENTORIES AND COSTS OF GOODS SOLD The flowchart should contain documentation of: • All job
Consider the entity's key controls and activity-level controls when preparing flowchart documentation
All inventory classifications such as raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods. • Standard costs calculations, applications, adjustments and revisions. • All inventory records, documents data or procedures
Consider the entity's key controls and activity-level controls when preparing flowchart documentation. T questions can facilitate the identification of accounting and internal control procedures: • Can inventory items be stolen, misappropriated or inaccurately transferred to work in process or c of good sold?
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,229
RANK
297,230
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies