Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Shareholder Response to Corporate Tax Planning Advice Regulation

57 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2020 Last revised: 18 Jan 2021

Michael P. Donohoe

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Brian Gale

University of Washington - Department of Accounting; University of Washington

Michael Mayberry

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Date Written: January 15, 2021

Abstract

We examine the shareholder response to heightened regulation of corporate tax planning advice through the covered opinions rules under U.S. Treasury Department Circular No. 230. These rules imposed extensive due diligence obligations and drafting requirements on tax professionals for a broad range of written tax advice. Despite overwhelming criticism from tax professionals, stock returns reveal a positive shareholder response to the promulgation of the rules, equating to a $12.33 billion aggregate increase in shareholder value. Consistent with shareholders believing that the benefits of the rules—deterrence of excessively risky tax planning and increased monitoring—would offset the burdens, we find that the shareholder response was more positive for firms with higher tax risk, weaker monitoring, and higher tax risk coupled with weaker monitoring. Overall, these findings provide new evidence that shareholders perceive regulations aiming to curtail risky tax planning as value enhancing when they target tax professionals rather than taxpayers.

Keywords: Circular 230, covered opinion rules, tax professional, tax planning, tax advice, tax avoidance, tax risk, external monitoring

JEL Classification: G10, H25, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Donohoe, Michael P. and Gale, Brian and Mayberry, Michael, The Shareholder Response to Corporate Tax Planning Advice Regulation (January 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3540996 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3540996
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
133 References
J L Abernathy , S A Davenport , E T Rapley
Schedule UTP: Stock price reaction and economic consequences
Journal of American Taxation Association , volume 35 , p. 25 - 48 Posted: 2013
Crossref
American Bar Association (ABA) Section of Taxation
Comments on Proposed Rulemaking: Circular , volume 230 Posted: 2004-02-12
Letter to Acting Assistant Treasury Secretary Greg Jenner and Internal Revenue Service Commissioner Mark W. Everson. American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Posted: 2004-02-12
Y Amihud , S Stoyanov
Do staggered boards harm shareholders
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 123 , p. 432 - 439 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,963
RANK
303,587
1 Citations
133 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies