Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cost of Misaligned Incentives: Evidence from the Funding Sources and Real Effects of Tax-Motivated Dividends

University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper No. 20-05

57 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2020 Last revised: 21 Apr 2025

Kose John

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Trent Krupa

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 21, 2025

Abstract

Prior research finds that firms pay special dividends before a tax increase, especially when ownership is high ("tax-motivated dividends"). We find that tax-motivated dividends paid when shareholders have heterogeneous tax incentives serve as a signal of some managers' willingness to myopically focus on their own incentives. Specifically, when taxable insider ownership is high but other shareholders are primarily tax-insensitive, indicating misaligned tax incentives, these "misaligned" tax-motivated dividend payers reduce R&D to fund dividends. This reduction in R&D is consistent with misaligned payouts signaling costly managerial myopia. Also consistent with costly myopia, we find lower market reactions to announcements of tax-motivated dividends for misaligned payers relative to the larger positive reactions for other payers. Similarly, total factor productivity decreases only for misaligned tax-motivated dividend payers following the dividend. Additional analyses rule out many alternative explanations. These findings add to our understanding of tax-based agency issues influencing real corporate decisions.


Online appendix: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4186971

Keywords: Investment, Agency Costs, Tax-Sensitivity, Dividend Payout Policy, Institutional Ownership, Shareholder-Level Taxes, JGTRRA, ATRA

JEL Classification: G35, H24, H32

Suggested Citation:

John, Kose and Krupa, Trent and Utke, Steven, The Cost of Misaligned Incentives: Evidence from the Funding Sources and Real Effects of Tax-Motivated Dividends (April 21, 2025). University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper No. 20-05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3541067 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3541067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
T Adam , V Goyal
The investment opportunity set and its proxy variables
The Journal of Financial Research , issue 1 , p. 41 - 63 Posted: 2008
F Allen , R Michaely , G Constantinides , M Harris , R Stulz
Chapter 7: Payout policy
Handbook of the Economics of Finance , volume 1 , p. 337 - 429 Posted: 2003
H Almeida , V Fos , M Kronlund
The real effects of share repurchases
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 119 , p. 168 - 185 Posted: 2016
A Alstadsaeter , M Jacob , R Michaely
Do dividend taxes affect corporate investment
Journal of Public Economics , volume 151 , p. 74 - 83 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,873
RANK
285,293
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies