Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Financial Performance and Corporate Governance to Stock Price in Non-Bank Financial Industry

Corporate Ownership & Control / Volume 17, Issue 2, Winter 2020

7 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2020

Herman Karamoy

Sam Ratulangi University

Joy Elly Tulung

Sam Ratulangi University

Date Written: February 20, 2020

Abstract

Indonesia’s financial sector is highly dominated by the banking industry than the non-bank. It controlled almost 74% of Indonesia’s financial assets in 2014. After post-crisis restructuration, the banking sector has become stronger, with a higher capital adequacy ratio and profitability. While, the non-bank financial industry is expected to solve the problems in the Indonesian economy, as well as becoming one of the long-term economic instruments. The purpose of this study is to test and analyse the effect of financial performance and the implementation of corporate governance on the non-bank financial industry stock prices on the Indonesia Stock Exchange in 2012-1016. The research population includes the non-bank financial industry listed in IDX, as many as 37 companies. This study found the probability, managerial ownership, institutional ownership and the composition of the independent commissioner partially and simultaneously does not significantly influence the stock price of the non-bank financial industry.

Keywords: Non-Bank Financial Industry, Stock Price, Managerial Ownership, Institutional Ownership

JEL Classification: G23, G11, G32

Suggested Citation:

Karamoy, Herman and Tulung, Joy Elly, The Effect of Financial Performance and Corporate Governance to Stock Price in Non-Bank Financial Industry (February 20, 2020). Corporate Ownership & Control / Volume 17, Issue 2, Winter 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3542011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,090
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,329
RANK
9,215
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies