Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Control Weaknesses and the Demand for Financial Skills: Evidence from U.S. Job Postings

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2020-54

52 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2020 Last revised: 6 Mar 2020

Janet Gao

McDonough School of Business

Kenneth J. Merkley

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Joseph Pacelli

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Joseph H. Schroeder

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 20, 2020

Abstract

Ineffective internal controls over financial reporting often relates to a lack of qualified personnel with sufficient accounting and technical expertise. In this study, we examine whether firms respond to internal control failures by increasing their demand for specific accounting and finance skills. Using unique data containing an extensive collection of job postings, we document significant increases in firms’ demand for employees with financial skills following the disclosure of an internal control weakness. This demand effect is more pronounced among jobs requiring accounting skills or accounting software knowledge, but also extends to non-accounting personnel that interface with accounting functions, suggesting an important role for all firm personnel in remediating internal control failures. We also find that increased financial skill demand is associated with a higher likelihood of internal control remediation, especially for firms with restatements. We also provide additional evidence consistent with increased financial skill demand relating to the disclosure of a material weaknesses rather than a proactive firm response to internal control issues. Overall, our findings shed new light on how firms internally respond to ineffective internal controls by increasing their demand for financial skills in their workforce.

Keywords: Internal Controls, Material Weakness, SOX 404, Human Capital, Job Postings, Financial Skills Demand

JEL Classification: G30, J23, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Janet and Merkley, Kenneth J. and Pacelli, Joseph and Schroeder, Joseph H., Internal Control Weaknesses and the Demand for Financial Skills: Evidence from U.S. Job Postings (February 20, 2020). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2020-54, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3542331 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3542331
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,627
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,868
RANK
25,736
4 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies