Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Performance of Small-and-Medium Sized Enterprises: the Grounded Theory Approach.

Journal of Business & Public Affairs, 2008

11 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2020

H Gin Chong

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 2, 2008

Abstract

Using the procedures stipulated by the grounded theory, this study reports the findings of in-depth semi-structured interviews with five owners-managers of small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs)on how performance is being measured. The findings reveal that the owners-managers use a hybrid approach combining both the financial and non-financial measures to evaluate performance against the predetermined goals and time. Time axis is based on the duration of completing a project. The findings have implications to both the SMEs and large organizations.

Keywords: Grounded Theory, Performance Measurement, Small & Medium Sized Enterprizes

JEL Classification: M15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chong, H Gin, Measuring Performance of Small-and-Medium Sized Enterprises: the Grounded Theory Approach. (January 2, 2008). Journal of Business & Public Affairs, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3542952
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
C E Bamford , T J Dean , P P Mcdougall
An Examination of the Impact of Initial Founding Conditions and Decisions upon the Performance of New Bank Start-Ups
Journal of Business Venturing , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 253 - 277 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J Barney
Gaining and Sustaining Competitive Advantage Posted: 1997
T M Begley , D P Boyd
Psychological Characteristics Associated with Performance in Entrepreneurial Firms and Smaller Businesses
Journal of Business Venturing , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 93 Posted: 1987
Crossref
S Birley , P Westhead
Growth and Performance Contrasts between 'Types' of Small Firms
Strategic Management Journal , volume 11 , issue 7 , p. 535 - 557 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Mawih Kareem Al Ani , H Gin Chong
Interplay between Accounting Conservatism, Auditing Conservatism and Quality of Earnings in Oman
International Journal of Economics, Management and Accounting · Posted: 22 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 12 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,057
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,240
RANK
43,541
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies