Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and the Cost of Debt: Evidence From Food and Beverage Companies in Nigeria

19 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2020

Wasiu Abiodun Sayanolu

Crescent University

Date Written: February 25, 2020

Abstract

In the corporate world, different business players have a divergent and often conflicting interest; shareholders, for instance, are interested in dividend or capital gain, managers want to implement a policy that maximizes their self-interest while debt holders are interested in favorable interest on capital. The study focused on the effect of corporate governance on the cost of dent of listed food and beverage companies in Nigeria from 2008 to 2017 amidst these divergent interests. The study used an ex post facto research design while multiple regression involving fixed effect was used to analyze the secondary data obtained from the annual financial reports of the selected six food and beverage companies. The study found significant positive effects of board size and board independence on the cost of debt while the director’s remuneration exerts negative but no significant effect on the cost of debt. Leverage as a control variable for the study was also found to have no significant negative influence on the cost of debt. The study, therefore, concludes that corporate governance has a significant joint effect on the cost of debt of listed food and beverage companies in Nigeria. The main recommendation of the study is that board size and composition should be structured and tailored towards sending a good signal to debt holders in the form of quality financial reporting in a bid to reduce the cost of debt to maximise shareholders’ wealth.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Cost of debt, Board size, Leverage and fixed effect

Suggested Citation:

Sayanolu, Wasiu Abiodun, Corporate Governance and the Cost of Debt: Evidence From Food and Beverage Companies in Nigeria (February 25, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3543962 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3543962
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
M Adam , Mukhtaruddin , N Soraya , H Yusrianti
Good corporate governance and cost of debt: Listed companies on Indonesian Institute for Corporate Governance , volume 11 Posted: 2015
Crossref
H Aldamen , K Duncan
Does adopting good corporate governance impact the cost of intermediated and non-intermediated debt? Accounting and Finance , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Al-Rawashdeh
Impact of Internal Corporate Governance on Capital Cost in Jordanian Pharmaceutical
International Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 11 , issue 6 , p. 83 - 92 Posted: 2019
Crossref
S Bacha
Corporate governance practices and audit quality: Do they matter for the cost of debt?
Theoretical Economics Letters , volume 9 , p. 2262 - 2282 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,040
RANK
306,185
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies