Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Corporate Governance on the Profitability and the Financial Performance of the Organization

Journal of Management (JOM), 6 (3), pp. 192-16, May-June 2019

5 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2020

Giriraj Kiradoo

Department of Management & Technology, Government Engineering College Bikaner, Bikaner Area, India

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

Purpose: Corporate governance is the most essential factor considered in every corporate. This makes the corporate work ethically by following the ethical conducts. In last decades it came to know that many researchers focused on the corporate governance and the financial performance relationship. The research purpose is to analyse the interrelationship between financial performance and corporate governance. The factors relating for the performance of business involves with the Board size and firm performance, CEO duality and organisational performance and Ownership concentration.

Methodology: This study is based on examining the link between corporate governance and the firm performance. Secondary method is being used and the data is collected from wide array reports of UK firms. This study conducts the systematic analysis of the evidences to establish the relationship between corporate governance and financial performance. For this, relationship between factors of CEO, board size and ownership is linked with the financial performance.

Findings: The various mechanisms are taken into considerations for the internal control and external control of the corporate governance. The study provides descriptive data analysis and regression analysis shows the direct connection between corporate governance and increasing profitability of the firm.

Conclusion: Study concludes that the profitability is important factor in all the corporate which is increased with the organization performance in terms of finance so that corporate governance is not impacted. The importance of corporate governance helps the business to develop the performance and profitability in an effective manner.


Keywords: Corporate Governance, Relating Factors, Profitability, Financial Performance

Suggested Citation:

Kiradoo, Giriraj, Impact of Corporate Governance on the Profitability and the Financial Performance of the Organization (2019). Journal of Management (JOM), 6 (3), pp. 192-16, May-June 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3543262
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Bill Francis , Iftekhar Hasan , Qiang Wu
Professors in the boardroom and their impact on corporate governance and firm performance
Financial management , volume 44 , issue 3 , p. 547 - 581 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Mercedes Rodriguez-Fernandez
Social responsibility and financial performance: The role of good corporate governance
BRQ Business Research Quarterly , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 137 - 151 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Chih-Wei Peng , Mei-Ling Yang
The effect of corporate social performance on financial performance: The moderating effect of ownership concentration
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 123 , issue 1 , p. 171 - 182 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Anne Stafford , Pamela Stapleton
Examining the Use of Corporate Governance Mechanisms in Public-Private Partnerships: Why Do They Not Deliver Public Accountability?
Australian Journal of Public Administration , volume 76 , issue 3 , p. 378 - 391 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,702
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,269
RANK
23,931
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies