Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Product Announcements, Innovation Disclosure, and Future Firm Performance

The Review of Accounting Studies

47 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2020 Last revised: 27 Nov 2023

Jenny Chu

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Yuan He

Xiamen University

Kai Wai Hui

University of Hong Kong

Reuven Lehavy

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Date Written: November 20, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the properties of innovation disclosures contained in new product announcements (NPAs), a form of voluntary, non-financial disclosure. We analyze these properties using a novel, text-based measure of the extent of product innovation disclosed in NPAs. We find that stock prices react more positively to NPAs with more extensive innovation disclosure. In our main analyses, we first find that a higher level of innovation disclosure predicts a greater increase in future sales. We further find that this predictive ability is reduced when managers have stronger incentives to maximize their wealth, and when the corporate governance structure and customers’ bargaining power are weaker. Our research enhances the understanding of the properties of managerial voluntary, non-financial disclosures and contributes a text-based measure of innovation that captures managerial assessment of the extent of innovation in new products. This new measure is more generalizable and incrementally informative for firm value and future performance than conventional innovation measures that depend on the existence of patents or research and development expenses.

Keywords: new product announcements; innovation; voluntary disclosure; incentives; performance; qualitative, narrative disclosure.

JEL Classification: M41, G34, M13

Suggested Citation:

Chu, Jenny and He, Yuan and Hui, Kai Wai and Lehavy, Reuven, New Product Announcements, Innovation Disclosure, and Future Firm Performance (November 20, 2023). The Review of Accounting Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3543632 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3543632
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
C S Armstrong , D F Larcker , G Ormazabal , D J Taylor
The relation between equity incentives and misreporting: The role of risk-taking incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 350 Posted: 2013
B L Bayus , G Erickson , R Jacobson
The financial rewards of new product introductions in the personal computer industry
Management Science , volume 49 , issue 2 , p. 197 - 210 Posted: 2003
L Bebchuk , A Cohen , A Ferrell
What matters in corporate governance?
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2009
S Belenzon , A Patacconi
Innovation and firm value: An investigation of the changing role of patents, 1985-2007
Research Policy , volume 42 , issue 8 , p. 1496 - 1510 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
703
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,988
RANK
84,191
8 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies