Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Audit Risk

34 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2020

Oladipupo Adebawojo

Babcock University - Department of Bursary

Date Written: February 25, 2020

Abstract

Corporate Governance is a contemporary issue in the business world. It could be described as a company’s overall efficient control to ensure transparency and full disclosure in organization business dealings. Despite organizations establishing various forms of Corporate Governance incidence of corporate failures still, occur which poses audit risk and affects auditors' reputation. This study was a form of explorative research which investigated how corporate governance affects Audit client audit risk. We carried out an in-depth study of past literature to gain a better understanding of the concepts of corporate governance and audit risk and to also know the findings of previous researches on the subject. Our study concluded that when there is good governance in the organization, the quality of the financial report will improve and this will ultimately reduce audit risk.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Audit Risk, Internal Control, Quality of Financial Report

Suggested Citation:

Adebawojo, Oladipupo, Corporate Governance and Audit Risk (February 25, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3543972 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3543972
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Audit risk and materiality in conducting and audit. AU section 312, source SAS no Posted: 2006
K Aparna , C H Sanjeev
Performance of public sector bales in india-the role of governing bodies. IJBT, volume II issue I Posted: 2017-03
C A Ceassel , G A Giroux , L A Myers , Omer T C
The effect of corporate governance on auditor-client realignment
Auditing: A journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Chartered Institute of Internal Auditor (2018) Corporate governance
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
743
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,602
RANK
78,417
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies