Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do CFOs Matter? Evidence from the M&A Process

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

66 Pages Posted: 29 May 2020 Last revised: 12 Jan 2021

Stephen P. Ferris

University of Missouri at Columbia - Department of Finance

Sushil Sainani

University of Liverpool

Date Written: January 1, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the effect of Chief Financial Officers (CFOs) on mergers and acquisitions using an innovative CFO Influence Index. We use the U.K. for our analysis because the perceived influence of CFOs is high. We find that more influential CFOs as measured by experience, stature, and pay are associated with more deal completions and the pursuit of smaller, domestic targets. High influence CFOs complete their due diligence more quickly and are able to identify higher quality targets for which they pay less. We also discover that firms with high influence CFOs enjoy greater long-term operating and financial performance post-merger. We conclude that influential CFOs are effective in creating shareholder value during M&A, especially when the deal is complex.

Keywords: CFO; mergers; acquisitions; performance

JEL Classification: G3; G34; G4

Suggested Citation:

Ferris, Stephen P. and Sainani, Sushil, Do CFOs Matter? Evidence from the M&A Process (January 1, 2021). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3545806 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3545806
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
U Malmendier , G Tate
Who Makes Acquisitions? CEO Overconfidence and the Market's Reaction
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 89 , issue 1 , p. 20 - 43 Posted: 2008
Crossref
C Marquardt , E Zur
The Role of Accounting Quality in the M&A Market
Management Science , issue 3 , p. 604 - 623 Posted: 2015
Crossref
K Martin
The Method of Payment in Corporate Acquisitions, Investment Opportunities, and Management Ownership
The Journal of Finance , volume 51 , issue 4 , p. 1227 - 1246 Posted: 1996
Crossref
M Martynova , L Renneboog
The Performance of the European Market for Corporate Control: Evidence from the Fifth Takeover Wave
European Financial Management , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 208 - 259 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
284
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,183
RANK
245,414
10 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies