Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance in Saudi Arabia: An Overview of Its Evolution and Recent Trends

Al-Faryan, M. A. S. (2020). Corporate governance in Saudi Arabia: An overview of its evolution and recent trends. Risk Governance and Control: Financial Markets & Institutions, 10(1), 23-36. DOI: 10.22495/rgcv10i1p2

14 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2020

Mamdouh Abdulaziz Saleh Al-Faryan

University of Portsmouth - Faculty of Business - Department of Economics

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

In spite of growing interest in Saudi corporate governance systems, there is little literature on the evolution of Saudi corporate governance. This study helps close this gap by investigating and compiling corporate governance development in Saudi Arabia. After providing background information for Saudi Arabia and its corporate governance model, we touch on the Saudi legal system and key external institutions that helped shape its corporate governance. We examine the specific contributions of the accounting and auditing professions, and the roles of the National Anti-Corruption Commission and the Saudi Stock Exchange. We describe key reforms implemented to develop the Saudi economy and evaluate their importance in facilitating change in corporate governance practices. This study contributes as an initial point of reference for future studies on Saudi Arabia, and serves as a one stop resource for both academics and practitioners, while specifically benefiting foreign and domestic investors considering investments in Saudi Arabia.

Keywords: Capital Markets, Corporate Governance, Ownership, Foreign Direct Investment, Saudi Arabia, Saudi Legal System, Stock Market Crash

JEL Classification: G18, G34, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Al-Faryan, Mamdouh Abdulaziz Saleh, Corporate Governance in Saudi Arabia: An Overview of Its Evolution and Recent Trends (2019). Al-Faryan, M. A. S. (2020). Corporate governance in Saudi Arabia: An overview of its evolution and recent trends. Risk Governance and Control: Financial Markets & Institutions, 10(1), 23-36. DOI: 10.22495/rgcv10i1p2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3546364
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
The cross-national diversity of corporate governance: Dimensions and determinants
The Academy of Management Review , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S R Al-Amari
The development of accounting standards and practices in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (Doctoral thesis Posted: 1989
H A Al-Angari
Auditing in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Posted: 2004
M A Al-Bushra
Corruption and organised crime Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
699
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,775
RANK
84,763
4 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies