Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Quality, Corporate Governance Structure and Corporate Social Performance of Manufacturing Companies Listed on the Stock Exchange of Thailand

PSAKU International Journal of Interdisciplinary Research, Vol. 8, No. 2, 2019

14 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2020

Chutima Nakprasit

Faculty of Business Administration, Rajamangala University of Technology Isan, Thailand

Prasobrerk Rattanayong

Faculty of Buddhist Studies, Mahachulalongkornrajavidyalaya University, Thailand

Date Written: July 1, 2019

Abstract

The objective of this study is to investigate the relationship between earnings quality, corporate governance structure and corporate social performance (CSP) emphasizing on 317 manufacturing companies listed on the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET). Earnings quality is calculated from four measurements while corporate governance structure is represented by ownership concentration, foreign ownership, board independence and CEO duality. In this study, CSP disclosure index is constructed in accordance with Thai institution guideline based on GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) framework in order to assess the extent of CSP. Regression analysis reveals a significant positive relationship between earnings quality and CSP. The result also indicates a significant positive relationship between ownership concentration and CSP. It implies that ethical and transparent character of Thai companies and ownership concentration contributes to CSP commitment.

Keywords: Earnings Quality, Corporate Governance, Corporate Social Performance

Suggested Citation:

Nakprasit, Chutima and Rattanayong, Prasobrerk, Earnings Quality, Corporate Governance Structure and Corporate Social Performance of Manufacturing Companies Listed on the Stock Exchange of Thailand (July 1, 2019). PSAKU International Journal of Interdisciplinary Research, Vol. 8, No. 2, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3547043 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3547043
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
831
RANK
605,468
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies