Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Level of Voluntary Disclosure in Annual Reports by Listed Companies in Fiji

26 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2020

Sheik Tanzil

Independent

Date Written: March 4, 2015

Abstract

Purpose: The purpose of this exclusive research is to ultimately ascertain the level of voluntary disclosure by listed corporations in Fiji. It will also target the importance of voluntary disclosure to the related stakeholders and the corporation itself. It will intend to build on the previous research that has been done in this area on developing countries through identifying some of the critical yet vital factors which directly reflect to the situation in Fiji.

Design/Methodology/Approach: This research is based on a checklist that has been derived by the invigilator. The elements in the check-list are based on the voluntary codes sustainability monograph and the AICPA’s guideline. Previous researches have been extensively referred to get other elements that made up the elements. All this is referenced in the bibliography. The researcher had to narrow the sample size as all the listed companies currently did not feature prominently for all the four consecutive years. The sample size of companies is narrowed to twelve to maintain consistency and to qualitatively compare the results. A professional structure has been maintained all throughout the research.

Findings: This well enhanced and latest research has unveiled that very low level of disclosure has been provided by listed companies in Fiji except for corporate governance information. Corporate Governance aspects have been inflicted by majority of the corporations. Other disclosures have reached a critical level and the trends are also very difficult to analyze and predict. The size of the capital market can be a variable that had remarkable influence on disclosure levels. Through comparison with other researches it can be said that size of the company and capital market had positive correlations with voluntary disclosure levels. Smaller the capital markets, the less the voluntary disclosure.

Recommendations: The perceptions of the people in the arena of corporate organizations need to change to bring about changes in Fiji’s capital markets. More concerns can be shown by corporations if they try to attend all the workshops organized by the relevant authorities where these kinds of issues are raised. The underlying advantages of voluntarily disclosing should be known. Since there are separate bodies like Capital Markets Development Authority and Reserve Bank having enormous impact on corporate governance, disclosure in this area dominates. If other authorities are built up in other areas of concern then probably the disclosure can increase. Awareness by South Pacific Stock Exchange is needed through campaigns by guest speakers.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure, Voluntary Codes, South Pacific Stock Exchange, General Information, Financial information, Non-Financial information, Future Information, Corporate Governance information, Shareholder Information, Social Responsibility Information.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Tanzil, Sheik, The Level of Voluntary Disclosure in Annual Reports by Listed Companies in Fiji (March 4, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3548434 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3548434
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Z A Ahmed
Comparision of social responsibility information disclosure media used by Canadian firms
Accounting,Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 38 - 53 Posted: 1990
D Barako
Determinants of voluntary disclosures in Kenyan companies annual reports
African Journal of Business Management , volume 1 , issue 5 , p. 113 - 128 Posted: 2007
A Ceft
Corporate reporting and Investment Decisions Posted: 1961
C Chow
Voluntary financial disclosure by Mexican corporations
The Accounting Review , volume 62 , p. 533 - 541 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,249
RANK
401,016
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies