Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should the Modern Corporation Maximize Shareholder Value?

Sanjai Bhagat and R. Glenn Hubbard, "Should the modern corporation maximize shareholder value?" AEI Economic Perspectives, September 2020, https://www.aei.org/research-products/report/should-the-modern-corporation-maximize-shareholder-value/

14 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2020 Last revised: 22 Sep 2020

Sanjai Bhagat

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Finance

R. Glenn Hubbard

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Finance; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: September 10, 2020

Abstract

Milton Friedman’s admonition 50 years ago that the modern corporation should maximize shareholder value remains controversial. We argue that under certain broad assumptions, the admonition remains a good place to start. To strengthen the prospects for success of long-term shareholder value maximization, we suggest steps to align shareholder wealth maximization with stakeholder interests. First, antitrust public policies should be vigorously enforced to maintain and enhance competition in product markets and labor markets. Second, management and board compensation should be reformed to focus on creating and sustaining long-term shareholder value. Finally, and more importantly, for many of society’s serious challenges, corporations do not represent the appropriate level of action. Climate change, for example, poses significant challenges for societies and businesses. But significant changes to combat climate change require public policy changes in the United States and abroad. Turning more to corporations because the political process seems broken will not do.


Keywords: ESG, CSR, Stakeholder, stakeholders, corporate social responsibility, corporate governance, shareholder value maximization

JEL Classification: G00, G02, G3, D21, D23, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bhagat, Sanjai and Hubbard, Robert Glenn, Should the Modern Corporation Maximize Shareholder Value? (September 10, 2020). Sanjai Bhagat and R. Glenn Hubbard, "Should the modern corporation maximize shareholder value?" AEI Economic Perspectives, September 2020, https://www.aei.org/research-products/report/should-the-modern-corporation-maximize-shareholder-value/ , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3548293 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3548293
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
4 Citations
Jonathan M. Karpoff
On a stakeholder model of corporate governance
Financial Management , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 321 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Sanjai Bhagat , Glenn Hubbard
Rule of law and purpose of the corporation
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 10 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Richard M. Frankel , S.P. Kothari , Luo Zuo
The Economics of Accounting
Oxford University Press, Forthcoming · 44 Pages · Posted: 6 May 2018 · Last revised: 22 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 4,665
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jitendra Aswani , Alona Bilokha , Mingying Cheng , Benjamin M. Cole
The Cost (and Unbenefit) of Conscious Capitalism
58 Pages · Posted: 20 Sep 2021 · Last revised: 31 Dec 2022 · Downloads: 739
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,741
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,528
RANK
23,094
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies