Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Size, Firm Type, and Stock Return Volatility

51 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2020

Alexander Merz

University of Goettingen

Sebastian Trabert

University of Goettingen

Date Written: March 6, 2020

Abstract

We analyze the association of board size and stock return volatility for different firm types. First, we find significant evidence that the association is non-linear over all firms. Second, we find that this differs for different firm types. While complex firms show a negative linear relationship between board size and volatility, research and development intensive firms exhibit a stronger u-shaped relationship. This shape is incompatible with the explanation in previous studies that larger boards experience communication and coordination problems which lead to lower volatility. Third, we provide evidence for an alternative explanation, namely that having more directors improves monitoring, but only up to a point. Our results hold for a battery of robustness checks, including a variety of endogeneity tests.

Keywords: board size, volatility, complex firms, R\&D-heavy firms, monitoring

JEL Classification: G31; G34; M52

Suggested Citation:

Merz, Alexander and Trabert, Sebastian, Board Size, Firm Type, and Stock Return Volatility (March 6, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3549906 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3549906
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
R B Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R B Adams , H Mehran
Bank board structure and performance: Evidence for large bank holding companies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 21 , p. 243 - 267 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M Arellano , S Bond
Some tests of specification for panel data: Monte Carlo evidence and an application to employment equations
Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
217
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,186
RANK
321,382
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies