Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Selection Process: An Interplay of Demand Mechanisms – A Multilevel Network Approach

Kacanski, S., Lusher, D., Wang, P., Auditor Selection Process: An Interplay of Demand Mechanisms - A Multilevel Network Approach. European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

27 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2020

Slobodan Kacanski

Roskilde University

Dean Lusher

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Peng Wang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 6, 2020

Abstract

Studies on demand side mechanisms related to experience goods argue that demand is driven by recommendation and reputation. In an auditing context, research showed that both of these mechanisms play an important role in determining partner selection, however, only when the mechanisms are observed in isolation. On this basis, this study raises a concern about whether the mechanisms are mutually exclusive, and if not, how does recommendation and reputation in auditor selection context create an interplay¬ in the process of auditor selection. We test our hypotheses on network data of Danish public companies. Findings from the social network study indicate that auditor selection is a sensitive and complex task for boards of directors, as it is not only driven by either of the mechanisms. Rather, partner selection is driven by the combination of both recommendation and reputation, which creates the interplay and, thus, indicates that the demand mechanisms are not mutually exclusive and should not be observed in isolation of one another.

Keywords: Auditors, Interlocking directorships, Social network analysis, Recommendation, Reputation

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Kacanski, Slobodan and Lusher, Dean and Wang, Peng, Auditor Selection Process: An Interplay of Demand Mechanisms – A Multilevel Network Approach (March 6, 2020). Kacanski, S., Lusher, D., Wang, P., Auditor Selection Process: An Interplay of Demand Mechanisms - A Multilevel Network Approach. European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3549760
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
103 References
A Abbott
Of time and space: The contemporary relevance of the Chicago School
Social Forces , volume 75 , issue 4 , p. 1149 - 1182 Posted: 1997
Crossref
M P Allen
The structure of interorganizational elite cooptation: Interlocking corporate 167 directorates
American Sociological Review , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 393 - 406 Posted: 1974
Crossref
E D Almer , D R Philbrick , K H Rupley
What drives auditor selection?
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 26 - 42 Posted: 2014
Crossref
J E Aronmwan , T A Oghenekome , O M Chijioke
Audit Firm Reputation and Audit Quality
European Journal of Business and Management , volume 5 , issue 7 , p. 66 - 75 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
713
RANK
658,366
103 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies