Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Institutions in Shaping Corporate Governance System: Evidence from Emerging Economy

Heliyon 6 (2020), doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e03520

17 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2020

Muhammad Arslan

Republic of Kazakhstan - Bang College of Business

Dr. Ahmad Alqatan

Portsmouth Business school

Date Written: March 7, 2020

Abstract

Corporate governance (CG) is often split among rule and principle-based approaches to control in idiosyncratic institutional contexts. This split is often primed by the types of institutional conformations, their potencies, and the complementarities within them. Drawing on the theoretical foundation of institutional theory, this study theorizes CG practices and structures as institutionally resoluted and directed and explores the key institutional determinants of good CG practices in an emerging economy. Based on qualitative method, this study presents eight specific antecedents of good corporate governance practices in weak institutional settings (Pakistan). In particular, the study explores the extent to which certain underlying formal and informal institutional determinants, such as the auditing, political, legal, board, shareholders awareness, voting, culture and values play a determining role in corporate governance. This study advocates how each of these precursors must be implied, enunciated and hitched, on the basis of pertinent institutional peculiarities, in order to address contextual corporate governance challenges. This study contributes to the institutional theorizing of good corporate governance, by paying attention to the context, efficacy (instrumentality) and legitimacy (symbolic) in expounding the good corporate governance practices in an international business environment.

Keywords: Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Arslan, Muhammad and Alqatan, Ahmad, Role of Institutions in Shaping Corporate Governance System: Evidence from Emerging Economy (March 7, 2020). Heliyon 6 (2020), doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e03520, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3550584
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
207 References
A Abayo , C Roberts
Does training more accountants raise the standard of accounting? Further evidence from
Tanzania. Res. Third World Account , volume 2 , p. 259 - 280 Posted: 1993
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , J Robinson , Y Thaicharoen
Institutional causes, macroeconomic symptoms: volatility, crises and growth
J. Monetary Econ , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 123 Posted: 2003
Crossref
E Adegbite
Corporate governance regulation in Nigeria
Corp. Govern.: Int. J. Bus. Soc , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 257 - 276 Posted: 2012
Crossref
E Adegbite , K Amaeshi , C Nakajima
Multiple influences on corporate governance practice in Nigeria: agents, strategies and implications. Int
Bus. Rev , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 524 - 538 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
918
RANK
713,531
3 Citations
207 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies