Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Risks and Rewards of Shareholder Voting

83 SMU Law Review 849 (2020)

41 Pages Posted: 19 May 2020 Last revised: 31 Dec 2020

Bernard S. Sharfman

Law & Economics Center at George Mason University’s Antonin Scalia Law School

Date Written: December 20, 2020

Abstract

The Securities and Exchange Commission’s (“SEC” or “Commission”) recent staff roundtable on the proxy process, and its resulting guidance, interpretation and proposed rules on limiting the use of shareholder proposals, regulating proxy advisors and their creation of shareholder voting recommendations for investment advisers, and increasing the fiduciary burden on investment advisers to make sure that the voting recommendations provided by proxy advisors are adequately informed and nonconflicted, has made shareholder voting the most prominently debated corporate governance issue of recent times. The number of comment letters submitted to the SEC have been voluminous, which includes eight submitted by this Article’s author. Yet, I doubt many of the writers of these letters, except in the context of their political agendas, have really thought deeply about the role played by shareholder voting in the governance of corporations; the collective action problem that is imbedded in such voting and how this problem needs to be managed; the inability of proxy advisors to solve the collective action problem; the objective of shareholder voting; and how and when shareholder voting creates value. This Article is dedicated to filling in the gap in our collective understanding of shareholder voting.

Keywords: shareholder proposals, shareholder voting, securities regulation, corporate governance

JEL Classification: K2, K22

Suggested Citation:

Sharfman, Bernard S., The Risks and Rewards of Shareholder Voting (December 20, 2020). 83 SMU Law Review 849 (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3550077
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,212
RANK
232,476
4 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies