Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysts’ Cultural Attitudes to Time Orientation

56 Pages Posted: 17 May 2020

Shuping Chen

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Jay Jung

City, University of London - Bayes Business School

Sonya S. Lim

DePaul University - Department of Finance

Yong Yu

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: March 9, 2020

Abstract

We study how analysts’ cultural attitudes to time orientation affect their production of long-term earnings forecasts, the profitability of their stock recommendations, and managerial myopia for the firms they cover. We find that analysts from a long-term oriented culture produce more long-term earnings forecasts, issue more timely long-term forecasts and more profitable stock recommendations. These results are more pronounced among firms with more long-term investments, for smaller firms, and during periods of higher economic uncertainty. Exploring the quasi-natural experiments of brokerage houses’ mergers and closures, we find a positive and plausibly causal effect of the coverage by long-term oriented analysts on firm innovation. Contrary to extant research finding that analysts’ coverage in general fosters managerial myopia, our paper shows that the coverage of long-term oriented analysts ameliorates managerial myopia.

Keywords: Cultural heritage, Long-term orientation, Earnings forecast, Stock recommendation, Firm innovation, Managerial myopia

JEL Classification: G24, G41, J15, O31

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Shuping and Jung, Jay Heon and Lim, Sonya S. and Yu, Yong, Analysts’ Cultural Attitudes to Time Orientation (March 9, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3551566 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3551566
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
P Asquith , M B Mikhail , A S Au
Information content of equity analyst reports
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 75 , p. 245 - 282 Posted: 2005
Crossref
O E Barron , D Byard , C Kile , E J
High-technology intangibles and analysts' forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 289 - 312 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M E Barth , R Kasznik , M F Mcnichols
Analyst coverage and intangible assets
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2001
Crossref
W Bearden , R B Money , J L Nevins
A measurement of long-term orientation: Development and validation
Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science , volume 34 , p. 456 - 467 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
382
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,831
RANK
177,635
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies