Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Mystique of the Boutiques: The Wealth Effects of Boutique Banks in Mergers and Acquisitions

40 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2020 Last revised: 3 Mar 2021

Samer Adra

University of Sheffield

Leonidas G. Barbopoulos

University of Edinburgh

Elie Menassa

University of Balamand

Date Written: March 9, 2020

Abstract

We provide the first comprehensive examination of the impact of the advisory services provided by boutique banks on acquirer returns in U.S. Mergers and Acquisitions (M&As). We show that the autonomy and expertise of boutique banks help acquirers realize significant gains in informationally demanding deals. We find that boutique banks add value to acquirers of large private companies in the short-run. Acquirers of small private companies also benefit from boutique banks, but these wealth effects are only pronounced in the post-announcement period. We attribute the delayed market response to the limited activity of information-driven traders at the time of the announcement of small private deals. We also show that resourceful acquirers recognize the valuable services offered by boutique banks and are more likely to involve them in private target deals. Lastly, we present novel evidence that boutique banks contribute to wealth creation in small public target M&As that are economically consequential for the acquirer. This result emerges only after we address endogeneity concerns by controlling for the acquirer’s quality.

Keywords: Financial advisors; Boutique banks; Mergers and Acquisitions; Private target companies; Small public targets; Abnormal returns

JEL Classification: G14, G34

Suggested Citation:

Adra, Samer and Barbopoulos, Leonidas G. and Menassa, Elie, The Mystique of the Boutiques: The Wealth Effects of Boutique Banks in Mergers and Acquisitions (March 9, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3551213 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3551213
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
904
RANK
424,948
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies