Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Report Lag: Specialized Auditor and Corporate Governance

Pradipta, A; Zalukhu, A.G., Audit Report Lag: Specialized Auditor and Corporate Governance, Global J. Bus. Soc. Sci. Review 8(1): 41 – 48, 2020

DOI: 10.35609/gjbssr.2020.8.1(5)

8 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2020

Arya Pradipta

Trisakti School of Management, Jl. Kyai Tapa No. 20, Jakarta, Indonesia

Arvivid Gracenia Zalukhu

Trisakti School of Management, Jl. Kyai Tapa No. 20, Jakarta, Indonesia

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

Objective - This paper aims to obtain empirical evidence about the influence of specialized auditors, audit tenure, audit committee, board independence, ownership concentration, and auditor quality on audit report lag in Indonesian manufacturing firms.

Methodology/Technique - The population is all manufacturing companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange between 2010 and 2016. Multiple linear regressions was used as the data analysis method.

Finding - The results of this research show that specialized auditors, board independence, ownership concentration and auditor quality all have an influence on audit report lag. Meanwhile, audit tenure and audit committee do not have an influence on audit report lag.

Novelty - Specialized auditors will provide better performance than non-specialized auditors. Specialized auditors will apply more appropriate planning and monitoring on the audit procedure. Specialized auditors need longer time to audit financial statements, which effects audit report lag. The presence of an independent board requires higher quality financial statements. Thus, the auditor needs to put more effort into the verification process of financial statements. The largest shareholders tend to be committed and responsible to the company's reputation. Managers will demand the audit report lag in a timely manner, in order to maintain the trust and satisfaction of the company's largest shareholders.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Audit Report Lag; Specialized Auditor; Board Independence; Ownership Concentration; Auditor Quality.

JEL Classification: G30; M42

Suggested Citation:

Pradipta, Arya and Zalukhu, Arvivid Gracenia, Audit Report Lag: Specialized Auditor and Corporate Governance (2020). Pradipta, A; Zalukhu, A.G., Audit Report Lag: Specialized Auditor and Corporate Governance, Global J. Bus. Soc. Sci. Review 8(1): 41 – 48, 2020, DOI: 10.35609/gjbssr.2020.8.1(5), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3551096
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
H A E Afify
Determinants of audit report lag-Does implementing corporate governance have any impact? Empirical evidence from Egypt
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 56 - 86 Posted: 2009
Crossref
K S Aljaaidi , G S Bagulaidah , N A Ismail , F H Fadzil
An Empirical Investigation of Determinants Associated with Audit Report Lag in Jordan
Jordan Journal of Business Administration , volume 11 , issue 4 Posted: 2015
K Apadore , M M Noor
Determinants of Audit Report Lag and Corporate Governance in Malaysia
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 8 , issue 15 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
754
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,221
RANK
77,028
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies