Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Company Lies

109 Georgetown Law Journal 353 (2020)

U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 20-19

51 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2020 Last revised: 5 Feb 2021

Elizabeth Pollman

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School; Co-Director, University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School - Institute for Law and Economics; European Corporate Governance Institute; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: March 9, 2020

Abstract

Rule 10b-5’s antifraud catch-all is one of the most consequential pieces of American administrative law and most highly developed areas of judicially-created federal law. Although the rule broadly prohibits securities fraud in both public and private company stock, the vast majority of jurisprudence, and the voluminous academic literature that accompanies it, has developed through a public company lens.

This Article illuminates how the explosive growth of private markets has left huge portions of U.S. capital markets with relatively light securities fraud scrutiny and enforcement. Some of the largest private companies by valuation grow in an environment of extreme information asymmetry and with the pressure, opportunity, and rationalizing culture that can foster misconduct and deception. Many investors in the private markets are sophisticated and can bear high levels of risk and significant losses from securities fraud. It is increasingly evident, however, that private company lies can harm a broader range of shareholders and stakeholders as well as the efficiency of allocating billions of dollars for innovation and new business. In response to this underappreciated problem, this Article explores a range of mechanisms to improve accountability in the private markets and ultimately argues for greater public oversight and enforcement.

Keywords: Venture capital, startup, private equity, securities regulation, fraud, enforcement, Rule 10b-5, Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, corporate governance, disclosure, misrepresentation, securities class action

JEL Classification: G18, G32, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Pollman, Elizabeth, Private Company Lies (March 9, 2020). 109 Georgetown Law Journal 353 (2020), U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 20-19, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3551565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
Clayton
Posted: 2019
Crossref
Id
9 (citing a 2018 analysis by the SEC's Division of Economic and Risk Analysis)
E G See , Gompers &amp; Josh Paul , Lerner
THE VENTURE CAPITAL CYCLE , volume 6 , issue 8
Ronald J. Gilson
Engineering a Venture Capital Market: Lessons from the American Experience
Stanford Law Review, Vol. 55, April 2003 Pages: 52 Posted: 4 Dec 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
573
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,044
RANK
109,481
1 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies