Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance Peer Groups in CEO Compensation Contracts

Financial Management, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2020

Tor-Erik Bakke

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Finance

Hamed Mahmudi

University of Delaware - Department of Finance

Ashley N. Newton

University of Oklahoma - Michael F. Price College of Business

Date Written: August 20, 2019

Abstract

We take advantage of comprehensive panel data available as a result of the 2006 SEC disclosure rules on relative performance evaluation (RPE) to (i) better understand how firms choose performance peer groups used in CEO RPE contracts and (ii) to investigate the causal impact of mandatory disclosure on the peer selection process. We find that while firms for the most part choose performance peers to better identify their CEOs’ impact on firms’ performance, they also tend to select underperforming peers. Dynamically, we find that peers that are added and retained every year are weaker than ones that were not chosen. These findings suggest managers may have some influence on the choice of performance peers. Lastly, using a quasi-natural experiment we find that the enhanced disclosure did not affect the tendency of firms to select underperforming peers.

Keywords: Executive Compensation, Relative Performance Evaluation, Performance Peer Group

JEL Classification: G34, J33, J41, D86

Suggested Citation:

Bakke, Tor-Erik and Mahmudi, Hamed and Newton, Ashley N., Performance Peer Groups in CEO Compensation Contracts (August 20, 2019). Financial Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3552943
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
973
RANK
314,223
11 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies