Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Structure and Real Earnings Management: Evidence from China

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2020

Nanyan Dong

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Fangjun Wang

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Junrui Zhang

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Jian Zhou

University of Hawaii at Manoa

Date Written: March 13, 2020

Abstract

Although ownership structure is fundamental to corporate accounting behaviors, the current literature provides scarce evidence about the governance effect of ownership structure on real earnings management (REM). We seek to address this issue by using a sample of Chinese listed firms which are likely to engage in earnings management during 2003-2014. We find that Chinese firms with more influential largest shareholders are more prone to REM; and that firms with state control and managerial ownership are less likely to engage in REM. We further find that there exists a joint and sequential relationship between REM and accrual-based earnings management in China. Our findings are robust to different variable measurements, samples and regression models. Our study contributes to the research on the relationship between ownership structure and earnings management and contributes to the understanding of REM in emerging economies. Our findings have significant implications for shareholders, analysts and regulators, and are important and relevant given that MSCI decides to include China mainland stocks in its indexes starting 2018.

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Nanyan and Wang, Fangjun and Zhang, Junrui and Zhou, Jian, Ownership Structure and Real Earnings Management: Evidence from China (March 13, 2020). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3553595
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
S Mitra , W M Cready
Institutional stock ownership, accrual management, and information environment
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 257 - 286 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Y Qian , J Wu
China's transition to a market economy. How far across the river , p. 31 - 63 Posted: 2003
B Qiu , J Yu , K Zhang
Trust and Stock Price Synchronicity: Evidence from China
Journal of Business Ethics , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2019
Crossref
S Roychowdhury
Earnings management through real activities manipulation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 335 - 370 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
346
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,331
RANK
198,235
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies