Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of The Effect of Islamic Social Reporting (ISR) Disclosure on Company Financial Performance: Study at Listed Companies in Jakarta Islamic Index (JII) Period 2010-2017

Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, 2018

12 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2020

Afrizal Afrizal

Universitas Jambi

Date Written: July 12, 2018

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to obtain empirical evidence about the effect of the level of disclosure of Islamic Social Reporting (ISR) on Company Financial Performance at listed Companies in JII 2010-2017. The sampling technique used in this study was purposive sampling. The analytical tool used to test the hypothesis was path analysis. The result of this research show that; Disclosure of Islamic Social Reporting (ISR) and sales growth have a simultaneous effect on Return On Equity (ROE), its means the better the disclosure of ISR and the higher of the sales growth the higher the Return on Equity or the higher financial performance of the companies.

Keywords: islamic social reporting (ISR); sales growth; return on equity (ROE)

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Afrizal, Afrizal, Analysis of The Effect of Islamic Social Reporting (ISR) Disclosure on Company Financial Performance: Study at Listed Companies in Jakarta Islamic Index (JII) Period 2010-2017 (July 12, 2018). Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3553083
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
S Alwi , R V Dasilva
Online and Offline Corporate Brand Image: Do They Differ?
Corporate Reputation Review , volume 10 , p. 217 - 244 Posted: 2007
K E Aupperle , B C Archie , D H John
An empirical examination of the relationship between corporate social responsibility and profitability
Academy of Management Journal , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 446 - 463 Posted: 1985
Crossref
George Balabanis , Phillips , C Hugh , Jonathan Lyall
Corporate Social Responsibility & Economic Performance in the Top British Companies: Are They Linked?
European Business Review , volume 98 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 44 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Amir Barnea , Rubin , Amir
Corporate Social Responsibility as a Conflict between Shareholders. Belkaoui, Ahmed. 2007. Accounting Theory. Book One
Salemba Empat. Edition , volume 5 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
806
RANK
541,838
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies