Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ethics, Culture and Higher Purpose in Banking: Post-Crisis Governance Developments

International Journal of Central Banking

33 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2020 Last revised: 18 Sep 2020

Anjan V. Thakor

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School; Financial Theory Group; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Laboratory for Financial Engineering

Date Written: March 14, 2020

Abstract

This paper examines the roles of ethics, culture, and higher purpose in banking, defining these concepts and discussing how they are related. Developments in these areas since the financial crisis are discussed in the context of governance in banking. The theoretical and empirical research on ethics, culture and purpose is reviewed, including a discussion of a framework for diagnosing bank culture. The paper closes with a discussion of the regulatory policy implications of the review.

Keywords: corporate governance, ethics, culture , higher purpose

JEL Classification: G20. G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Thakor, Anjan V., Ethics, Culture and Higher Purpose in Banking: Post-Crisis Governance Developments (March 14, 2020). International Journal of Central Banking, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3554121 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3554121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Franklin Allen
The Market for Information and the Origin of Financial Intermediation
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Andreas Barth , Sasan Mansouri
Corporate Culture and Banking Posted: 2020-01
Christopher Bartlett , A , Sumantra Ghoshal
Beyond Strategy to Purpose
Harvard Business Review Posted: 1994-12
Allen Berger , Christa Bouwman
How Does Capital Affect Bank Performance During Financial Crisis?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 146 - 176 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
428
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,772
RANK
155,954
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies