Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance in Emerging Markets: A Selective Review and an Agenda for Future Research

24 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2020

Melsa Ararat

Sabanci University - Sabancı Business School, Corporate Governance Forum

Stijn Claessens

Yale School of Management; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

B. Burcin Yurtoglu

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: March 15, 2020

Abstract

In this review, we show how corporate governance reforms and research have been mutually reinforcing in emerging markets and propose a research agenda going forward. Acknowledging the broad recognition of corporate governance as a key development driver, we show how research on corporate governance in emerging markets has led research globally by focusing on the deep issues of ownership structures, property rights and organisational forms. Using the papers presented at the latest international conference of Emerging Markets Corporate Governance Research Network, we illustrate how analysis of board structures, specifically board gender diversity, has contributed to understanding of board dynamics and informed corporate governance reforms. Considering ongoing economic and socio-political trends, we then propose a research agenda for corporate governance in emerging markets in general.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Emerging Markets, Boards, Board Diversity

JEL Classification: G18, G30, G34, G39, K22, K29

Suggested Citation:

Ararat, Melsa and Claessens, Stijn and Yurtoglu, B. Burcin, Corporate Governance in Emerging Markets: A Selective Review and an Agenda for Future Research (March 15, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3554745 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3554745
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
A Abramov , A Radygin , M Chernova
State-owned Enterprises in the Russian Market: Ownership Structure and their Role in the Economy
Russian Journal of Economics , volume 3 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Renée B. Adams
Boards, and the Directors Who Sit on Them
Forthcoming, The Handbook of the Economics of Corporate Governance, 2017, European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 515/2017 Pages: 135 Posted: 14 Jul 2017 Last revised: 21 Aug 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Michael S Hermalin , Weisbach
The Handbook of the Economics of Corporate Governance , volume 1 , p. 291 - 382
Renee B Adams , E Benjamin , Michael S Hermalin , Weisbach
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Abdulnaser Nour
The Effect of Board Multiple Directorships and Ceo Characteristics on Firm Performance: Evidence from Palestine
18 Pages · Posted: 22 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 1 Jun 2022 · Downloads: 29
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
515
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,576
RANK
125,072
1 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies