Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Information Acquisition via FOIA Requests Made to the SEC

The Accounting Review, forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2020 Last revised: 6 Sep 2022

Stephen Glaeser

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill

Bryce Schonberger

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Charles E. Wasley

Simon School, University of Rochester

Jason J. Xiao

SUNY at Binghamton - School of Management

Date Written: July 28, 2022

Abstract

There is limited evidence about when, why, and which individuals incur costs to acquire non-public information about a firm, largely due to the difficulty of observing private information acquisition. To overcome this difficulty, we obtain data on Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We predict and find that perceived information asymmetry between managers and outsiders resulting from both proprietary and agency costs triggers FOIA search. We categorize organizations making FOIA requests using their business descriptions and find that many, including law and intellectual property firms, are not expressly interested in obtaining information for near-term equity trading. Instead, their search activity relates to determinants beyond financial characteristics, including patent litigation and executive turnover. Taken together, we provide evidence on private information search by a relatively unexamined set of organizations and shed new light on the function of the SEC’s Office of FOIA Services.

Keywords: Freedom of Information Act; information acquisition; information search; disclosure; agency costs; proprietary costs; competition; lawsuits

JEL Classification: D82, D83, M41

Suggested Citation:

Glaeser, Stephen and Schonberger, Bryce and Wasley, Charles E. and Xiao, Jason J., Private Information Acquisition via FOIA Requests Made to the SEC (July 28, 2022). The Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3554850 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3554850
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
D Bao , Y Kim , L Su
Do Firms Redact Information from Material Contracts to Conceal Bad News
The Accounting Review, Forthcoming Posted: 2021
A Ben-Rephael , Z Da , R D Israelsen
It Depends on Where You Search: Institutional Investor Attention and Underreaction to News
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 9 , p. 3009 - 3047 Posted: 2017
D Bens , P Berger , S Monahan
Discretionary Disclosure in Financial Reporting: An Examination Comparing Internal Firm Data to Externally Reported Segment Data
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 2 , p. 417 - 449 Posted: 2011
P Berger
Challenges and Opportunities in Disclosure Research-A Discussion of 'the Financial Reporting Environment: Review of the Recent Literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 51 , issue 1-2 , p. 204 - 218 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
951
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,343
RANK
56,067
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies