Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Investigation of Current Status of Corporate Social Responsibility in Indian Organizations

M. Bala (2020). Empirical Investigation of Current Status of Corporate Social Responsibility in Indian Organizations. National Research Journal of Social Sciences, 5(2), 44–53.

10 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2020 Last revised: 17 May 2021

Madhu Bala

DAV College for Girls

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 1, 2020

Abstract

Purpose: This paper aims to investigate current status of corporate social responsibility in Indian organisations. Its purpose is to understand, document, analyze and review the corporate social responsibility perceptions of relatively selected companies in India after its legislation. Design/methodology/approach: This empirical study is based on a survey of 97 respondents of Indian organisations among top 500 fortune companies from various sectors. Out of the top 1000 companies in India, 125 companies were selected randomly from various sectors both from the public and private sectors also covered from manufacturing and service industries. The data was collected by using a structured questionnaire blended with suitable open-ended questions. The analysis has been carried out with the help of percentages and mean values using SPSS software. Findings: CSR has become progressively projected in the Indian corporate setting because organizations have recognized that besides growing their businesses, it is also important to shape responsible and supportable relationships with the community at large including almost all groups of people like rural community, nearby community, tribal community, customers, employees etc. CSR initiatives in India increasingly include lobbying for legally enforceable corporate standards that apply to all firms. Further the significant engagement of top management in setting up of CSR policies, deciding CSR activities, integrating CSR as a business strategy into their policies and practices and discharging CSR activities effectively in India will really take CSR to new heights. There is positive impact of CSR on the financial performance of company. But India is lacking in providing CSR training; which need to be given more thrust for a big success of CSR. Research/limitations/implications: This paper is of value to the researcher and practitioners of corporate social responsibility. The study, I hope, would help other small and medium sized companies, to actualize their CSR interventions by identifying appropriate target group of people to discharge CSR activities. This study can further be utilized to identify CSR training needs for their companies.
Keywords: -Corporate Social Responsibility; CSR Initiative; Corporate; Stakeholder; CSR performance; CSR Training; CSR Practices; CSR.


Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, CSR Initiative, Corporate, Stakeholder, CSR performance, CSR Training, CSR Practices, CSR

Suggested Citation:

Bala, Madhu, Empirical Investigation of Current Status of Corporate Social Responsibility in Indian Organizations (December 1, 2020). M. Bala (2020). Empirical Investigation of Current Status of Corporate Social Responsibility in Indian Organizations. National Research Journal of Social Sciences, 5(2), 44–53., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3555288
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
A Athanasopoulou
Managers' corporate social responsibility perceptions and attitudes across different organizational contexts within the non-profit-for-profit organizational continuum
Journal of Change Management , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 467 - 494 Posted: 2012
Crossref
S Batool , A Butt , B Niazi
Types of Corporate Social Responsibility Practices across the Industry in Pakistan and Their Effectiveness. Corporate Responsibility and Stakeholding (Developments in
Corporate Governance and Responsibility , volume 10 , p. 225 - 246 Posted: 2016
L Berchicci , A King
11 postcards from the edge: a review of the business and environment literature
Academy of Management Annals , volume 1 , p. 513 - 547 Posted: 2007
P Christmann
Effects of Best Practices of Environmental Management on Cost Advantage: The Role of Complementary Assets
Academy of Management Journal , volume 43 , p. 663 - 680 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,099
RANK
8,332
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies