Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Making the User Useful? How Translation Processes Managerialize Voice in Public Organizations

Financial Accountability & Management

19 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2020 Last revised: 7 Jul 2021

Jacob Reilley

University of Groningen - Faculty of Economics and Business

Nathalie Iloga Balep

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Helmut Schmidt Universität

Christian Huber

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Operations Management

Date Written: March 17, 2020

Abstract

One of the most pervasive topics in public management discussions in recent decades is the notion of user-orientation. More than ever, external stakeholders expect public organizations to “get closer” to users; to treat citizens as knowledgeable consumers of public services with a view and a voice. Existing literature highlights how, through a wide range of calculative practices, information gathered from and about public service users is assembled into descriptions of organizational activity that are useful for managers in addressing issues of surveillance and internal control as well as legitimation. In our multiple case study of hospitals and prisons in Germany, we introduce a two-step model of translation for explaining how user voice is transformed into management objects, which are then further translated into organizationally “useful” information. In doing so, we make three contributions to further our understanding of how user views are formatted to organizational activity and put to use by managers in the public sector. First, we developed a model of translation which highlights how user voices and the prospect of user-orientation are enacted across diverse organizational contexts. Second, we found that different types of organizations deploy distinct methods of accounting, which nevertheless make user feedback useful in similar ways: to develop information that helps construct an image of performance, gain financial leverage, and enact compliance. Third, we found that in addition to quantitative forms of accounting, narrative accounting techniques played important roles in making users “useful” in public organizations.

Keywords: user voice, management, translation, accounting, usefulness

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Reilley, Jacob and Iloga Balep, Nathalie and Huber, Christian, Making the User Useful? How Translation Processes Managerialize Voice in Public Organizations (March 17, 2020). Financial Accountability & Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3555846
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
M Alvesson , D Kärreman
Qualitative research and theory development: Mystery as a method Posted: 2011
Crossref
P Andon , J Baxter , W F Chua
Accounting for stakeholders and making accounting useful
Journal of Management Studies , volume 52 , issue 7 , p. 986 - 1002 Posted: 2015
Crossref
S Ansari , K J Euske
Rational, rationalizing, and reifying uses of accounting data in organizations. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 12 , issue 6 , p. 549 - 570 Posted: 1987
Crossref
M Arnaboldi , G Azzone
Constructing performance measurement in the public sector
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 21 , issue 4 , p. 266 - 282 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
537
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies