Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyzing Active Fund Managers' Commitment to ESG: Evidence from the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment

Forthcoming, Management Science

48 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2020 Last revised: 20 Dec 2021

Soohun Kim

College of Business, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST)

Aaron Yoon

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

Date Written: March 17, 2020

Abstract

The United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) is the largest global ESG initiative in the asset management industry to date. We analyze what happens after active US mutual funds sign the PRI, to assess whether they exhibit ESG implementation. We find that PRI signatories attract a large fund inflow but we do not observe improvements in fund-level ESG scores or fund returns. We consider a battery of ways to proxy for funds’ ESG incorporation (e.g., entry/exit, screening, engagement, voting for pro-ESG proposals), but fail to observe evidence of meaningful follow-through, on average. Next, we explore cross-sectional fund characteristics and find that only quant-funds exhibit small improvement in ESG performance versus other funds, mainly through buying high-ESG-performing stocks. Furthermore, we note that PRI signatories are not superior performers in ESG issues prior to signing, relative to non-PRI funds, but PRI affiliation tends to be widely advertised on company websites, marketing materials, and fund documents. Overall, a reasonable reader may perceive our findings as consistent with PRI funds’ greenwashing. We note, however, that what we uncover is based only on outcome-based measures and may miss some actual efforts of signatories.

Keywords: ESG, SRI, UN PRI, Asset Manager, Mutual Funds, Greenwashing

JEL Classification: G20

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Soohun and Yoon, Aaron, Analyzing Active Fund Managers' Commitment to ESG: Evidence from the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (March 17, 2020). Forthcoming, Management Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3555984 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3555984
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
B M Barber , X Huang , T Odean
Which factors matter to investors? Evidence from mutual fund flows
Review of Financial Studies , volume 29 , p. 2600 - 2642 Posted: 2016
L A Bebchuk , R Tallarita
The illusory promise of stakeholder governance Posted: 2020
W Beggs , J Brogaard , A Hill-Kleespie
Aggregate confusion: The divergence of ESG ratings Posted: 2020
J B Berk , J H Van Binsbergen
Assessing asset pricing models using revealed preference
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 119 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,065
ABSTRACT VIEWS
21,024
RANK
3,011
4 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies