Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can politics tame the market? Market Responses to Government Control of fully and partially Privatised Firms in China

European Financial Management, 0[10.1111/eufm.70005]

80 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2020 Last revised: 10 Aug 2025

Christos Mavrovitis (Mavis)

University of Surrey - Surrey Business School

Sarmistha Pal

University of Surrey; University of Surrey; University of Surrey - Surrey Business School; University of Surrey; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Date Written: July 03, 2025

Abstract

This study examines factors influencing full (FP) versus partial (PP) privatization and how markets respond to government control in PP and FP firms. Exploiting China’s 2005 NTS reform as a natural experiment, we find that treated PP firms experienced significantly lower post-reform performance, driven by persistent private benefits of control, failure to adopt value-maximizing behavior, and unchanged liquidity and information asymmetry. In contrast,  FP firms eliminated all NTS, maximized value; showed higher stock market liquidity and lower information asymmetry, improved market performance; and gained market confidence in the post-reform period. These findings challenge the effectiveness of China's authoritarian approach to private sector development.

Keywords: Non-tradable shares reform; Lock-up rule; Market performance; Fully and partially privatized firms; Government control of private firms; Difference-in-difference model; China;, Full and partial privatization, Firm value maximisation, Authoritarian central government, Local government incentives, Difference-in-difference model

JEL Classification: G31, G38, C36, L33

Suggested Citation:

Mavrovitis (Mavis), Christos and Pal, Sarmistha, Can politics tame the market? Market Responses to Government Control of fully and partially Privatised Firms in China (July 03, 2025). European Financial Management, 0[10.1111/eufm.70005], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3555788 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/eufm.70005
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Wall Street Walk" and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
F Allen , J Qian , C Shan , J Zhu
Dissecting the long-term performance of the chinese stock market Posted: 2021
B W Ambrose , F Fuerst , N Mansley , Z Wang
Size effects and economies of scale in european real estate companies
Global Finance Journal , volume 42 Posted: 2019
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,017
RANK
349,044
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies