Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Street vs. GAAP: Which Effective Tax Rate Is More Informative?

57 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2020

Erik Beardsley

University of Illinois

Michael Mayberry

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Sean T. McGuire

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 2020

Abstract

This study investigates how sophisticated market participants use tax-based information by examining whether analysts’ street effective tax rates (ETRs) are informative. When forecasting and assessing firm performance, analysts often exclude certain items they believe do not reflect current performance, resulting in “street” metrics such as street ETR. Using a hand-collected sample of analyst reports, we find that approximately 35 percent of street ETRs have at least one tax-specific exclusion, and over 90 percent have tax effects of pre-tax exclusions. Consistent with analysts’ understanding the implications of tax and non-tax exclusions, our results suggest that street ETRs are more informative than GAAP ETRs. We investigate variation in analysts’ ETR exclusions and find that ETR exclusions are of higher quality when the magnitude of the potential excluded item is greater and when managers disclose pro forma earnings. These results provide a nuanced view of the extent that analysts incorporate tax-based information into their assessment of firm performance. Collectively, our findings suggest that analysts understand taxes, but selectively exert effort to understand and incorporate tax-based information into their assessment of firm performance.

Keywords: Non-GAAP reporting, street earnings, accounting for income taxes, effective tax rates, analysts

Suggested Citation:

Beardsley, Erik and Mayberry, Michael and McGuire, Sean T., Street vs. GAAP: Which Effective Tax Rate Is More Informative? (March 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3555795 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3555795
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
E Amir , T Sougiannis
Analysts' interpretation and investors' valuation of tax carryforwards
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 333 - 347 Posted: 1999
Crossref
B C Ayers , J Jiang , S K Laplante
Taxable income as a performance measure: The effects of tax planning and earnings quality
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 54 Posted: 2009
Crossref
B Baik , K Kim , R Morton , Y Roh
Analysts' pre-tax income forecasts and the tax expense anomaly
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 559 - 595 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J Bentley , T Christensen , K Gee , B Whipple
Disentangling managers' and analysts' non-GAAP reporting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 1039 - 1081 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Novia (Xi) Chen , Sabrina Chi , Terry J. Shevlin
A Tale of Two Forecasts: An Analysis of Mandatory and Voluntary Effective Tax Rate Forecasts
64 Pages · Posted: 8 Nov 2018 · Last revised: 2 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 631
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
283
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,037
RANK
246,297
1 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies