Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Does Corporate Governance Matter? Evidence From Across the Corporate Lifecycle

Managerial Finance, Vol. 41, Issue 7, pp. 673-691

17 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2020

Julie Byrne

Dublin City University

Thomas O’Connor

National University of Ireland, Maynooth (NUI Maynooth) - Department of Economics, Finance and Accounting

Date Written: March 17, 2020

Abstract

Purpose – We explore the relationship between corporate governance and firm value at different stages of the corporate life-cycle.

Design/methodology/approach – We use two measures, commonly employed in the literature, to differentiate between “immature” and “mature” firms, and estimate separate governance-value regressions for each set of firms.

Findings – Our findings suggest that governance only matters in emerging markets when firms are mature. These findings suggest that it is the monitoring role of governance which is valued in emerging markets. Firms which govern against the agency costs of free cash flow, which tend to manifest when firms are “mature”, are valued highly. In contrast, our analysis suggests that the strategic and resource functions of governance are not valued in emerging markets.

Research limitations/implications – We are restricted to the use of cross-sectional corporate governance data. Consequently, our findings are likely biased because of our inability to control for unobserved heterogeneity.

Originality/value – Our findings suggest that corporate governance is not valued equally at all stages of the corporate life-cycle. Recent evidence finds that for emerging market firms, corporate governance quality is greatest when firms are “mature”. Our findings suggest that the decision by mature firms to invest disproportionately more in governance when they are “mature” is justified, since this is then when governance is valued the most.

Keywords: corporate governance, corporate life-cycle, firm value, emerging markets

JEL Classification: G32

Suggested Citation:

Byrne, Julie and O'Connor, Thomas, When Does Corporate Governance Matter? Evidence From Across the Corporate Lifecycle (March 17, 2020). Managerial Finance, Vol. 41, Issue 7, pp. 673-691, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3555867
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
L Bebchuk , A Cohen , A Ferrell
What matters in corporate governance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2009
Crossref
B Black , I Love , A Rachinsky
Corporate governance indices and firms' market values: time series evidence from Russia
Emerging Markets Review , volume 7 , p. 361 - 379 Posted: 2006
Crossref
B Black , H Jang , W Kim
Predicting firms' corporate governance choices: evidence from Korea
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 12 , p. 660 - 691 Posted: 2006
Crossref
B Black , A De Carvalho , E Gorga
What matters and for which firms for corporate governance in emerging markets? Evidence from Brazil (and other BRIK countries)
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 18 , p. 934 - 952 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Keith J. Crocker , Joel B. Slemrod
The Economics of Earnings Manipulation and Managerial Compensation
NBER Working Paper No. w12645 · 34 Pages · Posted: 20 Nov 2006 · Last revised: 22 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 81
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Daniela Salvioni , Francesca Gennari
Stakeholder Perspective of Corporate Governance and CSR Committees
Salvioni, D.M. & Gennari F. (2019). Stakeholder Perspective of Corporate Governance and CSR Committees, Symphonya. Emerging Issues in Management (symphonya.unicusano.it), 1, 28-39. Doi 10.4468/2019.1.03salvioni.gennari · 12 Pages · Posted: 8 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 1,474
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
689
RANK
459,150
2 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies