Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Lifecycles in Emerging Markets

Research in International Business and Finance (Forthcoming)

44 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2020

Omar A. Esqueda

Tarleton State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Thomas O’Connor

National University of Ireland, Maynooth (NUI Maynooth) - Department of Economics, Finance and Accounting

Date Written: March 17, 2020

Abstract

Whereas the corporate life cycle hypothesis says firms follow structured goals along their life cycle, others argue that corporate governance objectives vary independently of predetermined life cycle stages. This study examines the impact of the corporate life cycle on corporate governance in emerging markets, where firms can self-select into stricter rules by adopting an exchange listing level that fits the governance needs of the organization independently of life cycle requirements. We find the listing-level decision is a better predictor of corporate governance quality than corporate life cycle.

Keywords: Agency theory, Bovespa, corporate governance, corporate life cycle, emerging markets, Novo Mercado.

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34.

Suggested Citation:

Esqueda, Omar A. and O'Connor, Thomas, Corporate Governance and Lifecycles in Emerging Markets (March 17, 2020). Research in International Business and Finance (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3555842
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
J Anthony , K Ramesh
Association between accounting performance measures and stock prices: a test of the life-cycle hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , p. 203 - 227 Posted: 1992
M Banyi , K Kahle
Declining propensity to play? A re-examination of the life-cycle theory
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 27 , p. 345 - 366 Posted: 2014
Crossref
F Bertone , M Colombo , A Croce
Corporate governance in high-tech firms
The Oxford Handbook of Corporate Governance Posted: 2013
Crossref
B Black , H Jang , W Kim
Predicting firms' corporate governance choices
Evidence from Korea. Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 12 , p. 660 - 691 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
760
RANK
765,896
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies