Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Firm Size, Profitability, Audit Committee, and Other Factors to Firm Value

Djashan, I.A; Agustinus, Y; 2020. The Effect of Firm Size, Profitability, Audit Committee, and Other Factors to Firm Value, Acc. Fin. Review 5 (1): 22 – 27 DOI:10.35609/afr.2020.5.1(3)

6 Pages Posted: 8 May 2020

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Indra Arifin Djashan

Trisakti School of Management

Yosua Agustinus

Trisakti School of Management

Date Written: March 31, 2020

Abstract

Objective - This study aims to identify the effect of firm size, profitability, audit committee and other factors on firm value.

Methodology/Technique - The population in this study are all non-financial companies on the Indonesian Stock Exchange from 2015 to 2017. The research sample of 403 companies was selected using a purposive sampling method with certain criteria so that a total sample of 180 companies was obtained. Data testing techniques using multiple linear regression with a significance level of 5% alpha.

Finding - The results show that firm size has a negative effect on firm value while company growth, profitability, liquidity, tangible fixed assets, audit committee and board size all have a significant effect on firm value. Simultaneously, all independent variables have a positive effect on firm value. The coefficient of determination shows that the effect of the independent variable on the dependent variable is 55.9% and the rest is influenced by other factors.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Audit Committee; Firm Value; Company Growth; Profitability; Liquidity; Board Size

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Djashan, Indra Arifin and Agustinus, Yosua, The Effect of Firm Size, Profitability, Audit Committee, and Other Factors to Firm Value (March 31, 2020). Djashan, I.A; Agustinus, Y; 2020. The Effect of Firm Size, Profitability, Audit Committee, and Other Factors to Firm Value, Acc. Fin. Review 5 (1): 22 – 27 DOI:10.35609/afr.2020.5.1(3), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3556486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,485
RANK
39,015
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies