Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Carbon Disclosure and Foreign Investor Participation in Korean Firms

Journal of International Trade & Commerce Vol. 16, No.1, February 2020 (pp. 95-112)

18 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2020

Yong-Ki Jung

Chonnam National University

Sun-Hwa Kim

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 27, 2020

Abstract

Purpose – This study principally examines the relationship between foreign ownership and firms’ responses on the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) participation as a method to cope with climate change.

Design/Methodology/Approach – The sample taken for this study includes 1,346 firm-year observations. The sample employed herein was obtained from firms listed on the Korean Stock Exchange (KSE) from 2011 to 2016.

Findings – First, our finding shows a positive relationship between the survey response designating CDP participation and the ratio of equity ownership by foreign owners. The result indicates that foreign investors are likely to exert pressure on management to implement CDP participation, thereby justifying the firm’s approaches to corporate environmental activities and efforts to cope with carbon regulation. Additionally, this study demonstrates that foreign investors acquiring more than 5% of shares in individual firms tend to practice more effective control in management’s decisions with regard to CDP participation.

Research Implications or Originality – First, these findings will be used in formating the investment policies of foreign investors and disclosure policy regarding carbon risk managements.

Keywords: Carbon Disclosure, Climate Change, Foreign Investors

JEL Classification: GO2, M14

Suggested Citation:

Jung, Yong-Ki and Kim, Sun-Hwa, Corporate Carbon Disclosure and Foreign Investor Participation in Korean Firms (February 27, 2020). Journal of International Trade & Commerce Vol. 16, No.1, February 2020 (pp. 95-112), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3556245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
R Aggarwal , L Klapper , P D Wysocki
Portfolio Preferences of Foreign Institutional Investors
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 29 , issue 12 , p. 2919 - 2946 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A G Ahearne , W L Griever , F E Warnock
Information Costs and Home Bias: An Analysis of U.S. Holdings of Foreign Equities
Journal of International Economics , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 313 - 336 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Yoon-Young Ahn , Hyun-Han Shin , Jin-Ho Chang
The Relationship between the Foreign Investors and Information Asymmetry , volume 30 , p. 109 - 131 Posted: 2005
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The Role of Information and Financial Reporting in Corporate Governance and Debt Contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
836
RANK
484,103
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies