Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility Towards the Environment and Financial Performance of Consumer Goods Companies in Nigeria

Posted: 4 May 2020

Wirnkar Alphonsius Dzeawuni

Gombe State University, Gombe

Date Written: March 5, 2020

Abstract

This research examined the effects of corporate social responsibility and corporate social responsibility towards the environment on financial performance of consumer goods companies in Nigeria. The quantitative and ex post facto research designs were found appropriate for the study. Secondary source of data collection via panel data was collected using corporate social responsibility checklist and by extraction from annual reports and accounts of listed consumer goods companies in Nigeria. Inferential statistics of multiple regressions were employed to attain the research objectives. Eviews 10 was the statistical package used for data analysis.

The results show positive and significant effects of corporate social responsibility and corporate social responsibility towards the environment on financial performance. Consumer goods companies in Nigeria are recommended to pursue corporate social responsibility policies and in particular those policies related towards the environment for reciprocal benefit from enhancement of financial performance for their survival as going concerns.

Keywords: financial performance, corporate social responsibility, corporate social responsibility towards the environment, Stakeholder Theory, Good Management Theory, Panel Data, Regression Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Dzeawuni, Wirnkar Alphonsius, Corporate Social Responsibility Towards the Environment and Financial Performance of Consumer Goods Companies in Nigeria (March 5, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3557794
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
607
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies