Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Increasing Role of Corporate Governance in Managing the Interest and Benefit of Stakeholders of an Organization

International Journal of Information Research and Review, 03(07), pp. 2641-2644, 2016

4 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2020

Giriraj Kiradoo

Department of Management & Technology, Government Engineering College Bikaner, Bikaner Area, India

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

Purpose- Corporate governance is the set of best practices and moral conduct that brings improvement in stakeholder satisfaction. The current research paper highlights the increasing role of corporate governance in managing the interest and benefit of stakeholders of an organization.

Methodology- The use of secondary sources of qualitative research supports in explaining conclusions on the research topic through a reference to previous articles and books. The literature from the year 2011-2015 is considered in conducting the research activity.

Findings- The proper application of a transparent method of managing stakeholders increase the level of satisfaction and improve the overall performance of the organization. Various rights need to be provided by the company to the stakeholders so that wealth creation and soundness in an organization can be maximized.

Conclusion- The application of principles of corporate governance increases engagement and long term relations of the stakeholders. It avoids mismanagement and improves the method of capital use and supports in minimizing the level of risk in the organization through continuous involvement in creative practices.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Mismanagement, Stakeholders, Engagement, Performance, Satisfaction

Suggested Citation:

Kiradoo, Giriraj, The Increasing Role of Corporate Governance in Managing the Interest and Benefit of Stakeholders of an Organization (2016). International Journal of Information Research and Review, 03(07), pp. 2641-2644, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3558364
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Fran Ackermann , Colin Eden
Strategic management of stakeholders: Theory and practice
Longrange planning , volume 44 , issue 3 , p. 179 - 196 Posted: 2011
Crossref
D A Awotundun , J S Kehinde , R O C Somoye
Corporate governance and stakeholders interest: a case of Nigerian banks
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 6 , issue 10 Posted: 2011
Stijn Claessens , B Burcin Yurtoglu
Corporate governance in emerging markets: A survey
Emerging markets review , volume 15 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Raluca-Florentina Cretu
Corporate governance and corporate diversification strategies
Revista de Management ComparatInternațional , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 621 - 633 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
376
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,149
RANK
180,781
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies