Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Litigation Risk and the Mapping Between Disclosures and the Information Environment: A Data Envelopment Analysis Approach

50 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2020 Last revised: 18 Jan 2024

Peter R. Demerjian

School of Accountancy, J. Mack Robinson College of Business, Georgia State University

Simmi Mookerjee

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Bryce Schonberger

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Date Written: January 10, 2024

Abstract

Research examining the role of litigation risk in firms’ disclosure decisions faces a fundamental challenge: litigation risk affects both firms’ incentives to disclose information and capital market participants’ incentives to uncover information. In this sense, firms’ disclosure decisions in response to litigation risk are analogous to a production problem, where litigation risk affects both the demand for and supply of disclosures. To model this disclosure production problem, we use data envelopment analysis (DEA) to measure the mapping between a firm’s voluntary disclosures and the quality of its external information environment. Consistent with shifts in the correspondence between disclosures and the information environment in response to changes in litigation risk, we find stronger mappings between disclosures and the information environment after firms are targeted by a securities class action lawsuit.

Keywords: data envelopment analysis, voluntary disclosure, information environment, litigation

JEL Classification: D24, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Demerjian, Peter R. and Mookerjee, Simmi and Schonberger, Bryce, Litigation Risk and the Mapping Between Disclosures and the Information Environment: A Data Envelopment Analysis Approach (January 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3559651 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3559651
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
D Aigner , C A K Lovell , P Schmidt
Formulation and Estimation of Stochastic Frontier Production Function Models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 37 Posted: 1977
K Balakrishnan , M B Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Shaping Liquidity: On the Causal Effects of Voluntary Disclosure
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 2237 - 2278 Posted: 2014
R D Banker , A Charnes , W W Cooper
Some Models for Estimating Technical and Scale Inefficiencies in Data Envelopment Analysis
Management Science , volume 30 , issue 9 , p. 1078 - 1092 Posted: 1984
R Banker , R Natarajan , D Zhang
Two-Stage Estimation of the Impact of Contextual Variables in Stochastic Frontier Production Function Models Using Data Envelopment Analysis: Second Stage OLS versus Bootstrap Approaches
European Journal of Operational Research , volume 278 , issue 2 , p. 368 - 384 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,703
RANK
319,999
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies