Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Environmental Performance and Financing Decisions

Benlemlih, M., & Cai, L. (2019). Corporate environmental performance and financing decisions. Business Ethics: A European Review.

40 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2020

Mohammed Benlemlih

EM Normandie

Li Cai

Illinois Institute of Technology - Stuart School of Business, IIT

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

We investigate the financing strategies of environmentally responsible firms to understand how they set target capital structures and make incremental financing decisions. Literature shows that firms with better environmental performance have lower risk and better access to financing. However, it is not obvious how these firms choose to finance their investments. Using an extensive dataset of U.S. firms, we find that firms with superior environmental performance have significantly lower debt ratios and use mostly short-term debt for temporary financing needs. In doing so, environmentally responsible firms are able to achieve more tax savings and experience lower costs of financial distress. Our results provide new empirical facts about environmental performance and financing decisions, and they help explain the observed relationship between environmental performance and economic performance.

Keywords: Corporate Environmental Performance, Equity Financing, Debt Financing

Suggested Citation:

Benlemlih, Mohammed and Cai, Li, Corporate Environmental Performance and Financing Decisions (2019). Benlemlih, M., & Cai, L. (2019). Corporate environmental performance and financing decisions. Business Ethics: A European Review., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3560137
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
S Ambec , P Lanoie
Does it pay to be green? A systematic overview , volume 22 , p. 45 - 62 Posted: 2008
M J Barclay , L M Marx , C W Smith
The joint determination of leverage and maturity
Journal of corporate finance , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 149 - 167 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A Barnea , A Rubin
Corporate Social Responsibility as a Conflict Between Shareholders
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 71 - 86 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Benlemlih
Corporate social responsibility and firm debt maturity
Journal of Businss Ethics , volume 144 , issue 3 , p. 491 - 517 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,013
RANK
541,838
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies