Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Culture and Management Control Interdependence: An Analysis of Control Choices That Complement the Delegation of Authority in Western Cultural Regions

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 86, 101116, 2020

Posted: 17 Apr 2020 Last revised: 2 Feb 2021

Teemu Malmi

Aalto University School of Business

David S. Bedford

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Rolf Brühl

ESCP Europe Business School Berlin

Johan Dergard

Lund University

Sophie Hoozée

Ghent University - Department of Accountancy and Corporate Finance

Otto Janscheck

University of Vienna

Jeanette Willert

Copenhagen Business School

Christian Ax

University of Gothenburg - School of Business, Economics and Law

Piotr Bednarek

Uniwersytet Ekonomiczny we Wrocławiu

Maurice Gosselin

Université Laval

Michael Hanzlick

ESCP Europe, Berlin

Poul Israelsen

Aalborg University - Center for Industrial Production

Daniel Johanson

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Tobias Johansson

Örebro University - School of Business

Dag Øivind Madsen

University of South-Eastern Norway USN School of Business

Carsten Rohde

Copenhagen Business School

Mikko Sandelin

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Torkel Strömsten

Stockholm School of Economics

Thomas Toldbod

Aalborg University Business School

Date Written: February 13, 2020

Abstract

This study examines the influence of cultural regions on the interdependence between delegation of authority and other management control (MC) practices. In particular, we assess whether one of the central contentions of agency theory, that incentive contracting and delegation are jointly determined, holds in different cultural regions. Drawing on prior literature, we hypothesise that the MC practices that operate as a complement to delegation vary depending on societal values and preferences, and that MC practices other than incentive contracting will complement delegation in firms in non-Anglo cultural regions. Using data collected from 584 strategic business units across three Western cultural regions (Anglo, Germanic, Nordic), our results show that the interdependence between delegation and incentive contracting is confined to Anglo firms. In the Nordic and Germanic regions, we find that strategic and action planning participation operate as a complement to delegation, while delegation is also complemented by manager selection in Nordic firms. Overall, our study demonstrates that cultural values and preferences significantly influence MC interdependence, and suggests that caution needs to be taken in making cross-cultural generalisations about the complementarity of MC practices.

Keywords: Management control, Delegation, Incentives, Complementarity, Interdependence, Culture

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Malmi, Teemu and Bedford, David S. and Brühl, Rolf and Dergard, Johan and Hoozée, Sophie and Janscheck, Otto and Willert, Jeanette and Ax, Christian and Bednarek, Piotr and Gosselin, Maurice and Hanzlick, Michael and Israelsen, Poul and Johanson, Daniel and Johansson, Tobias and Madsen, Dag Øivind and Rohde, Carsten and Sandelin, Mikko and Strömsten, Torkel and Toldbod, Thomas, Culture and Management Control Interdependence: An Analysis of Control Choices That Complement the Delegation of Authority in Western Cultural Regions (February 13, 2020). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 86, 101116, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3560062
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
985
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Motivation & Incentives eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies