Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Betrayed Employees: The Impact of Financial Fraud on Inventor Productivity

81 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2020 Last revised: 30 Sep 2023

Po-Hsuan Hsu

National Tsing Hua University - Department of Quantitative Finance; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER)

Feng Tian

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Long Yi

The Education University of Hong Kong

Date Written: June 05, 2024

Abstract

Although stigma theory suggests that blameless employees will suffer from their association with scandal-rife companies, little is known about how they act in the face of potential stigmatization. Potential stigma concerns inventors, an important group of employees whose output can be objectively measured; thus, when a dishonest culture and wrongdoings permeate a firm, inventors change their activities and productivity. Our empirical evidence suggests that inventors' patent counts and forward citations significantly drop when egregious fraud occurs. Such a relation is more pronounced when inventors live in more religious areas, but is mitigated when inventors have more social capital. This relation can be attributed to three mechanisms: the departure of talented inventors, an increased uncertainty in payoffs, and reduced efforts.

Keywords: financial fraud, technological innovation, managerial myopia, trust, corporate culture Classifications: G30, M40, M41, M43, O31

JEL Classification: G30; M40; M41; M43; O31

Suggested Citation:

Hsu, Po-Hsuan and Tian, Feng and Yi, Long, Betrayed Employees: The Impact of Financial Fraud on Inventor Productivity (June 05, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3562829 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3562829
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
115 References
M D Amore , C Schneider , A Žaldokas
Credit supply and corporate innovation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 835 - 855 Posted: 2013
G Anders
Moving on after Enron means being humble and minimizing role
Wall Street Journal , volume 27 , issue B1 Posted: 2004
K Aquino , I I Reed , A
The self-importance of moral identity
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 83 , issue 6 Posted: 2002
K Aquino , D Freeman , I I Reed , A Lim , V K Felps , W
Testing a social-cognitive model of moral behavior: the interactive influence of situations and moral identity centrality
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 97 , issue 1 Posted: 2009
Load more
1 Citations
Maryam Seifzadeh , Mahdi Salehi , Bizhan Abedini , Mohammad Hossien Ranjbar
The relationship between management characteristics and financial statement readability
EuroMed Journal of Business , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 108 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
352
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,650
RANK
194,508
1 Citations
115 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies