Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Meeting, Loss, and Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure

Journal of Security and Sustainability Issues, Vol. 9, 2020

18 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2020

Iman Harymawan

Universitas Airlangga

Dian Agustia

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Pudyas Aprilia Dwi

Airlangga University

Melinda Cahyaning Ratri

Airlangga University

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to analyze how the meeting of the board of commissioners and board of directors affect the level of corporate social responsibility disclosure. This study uses 251 observations from 71 companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) in the period 2010-2017. This study finds that the board of commissioners meeting does not affect corporate social responsibility disclosure (CSRD), but the board of directors meeting has a negative and significant effect on CSRD. Furthermore, this study finds that loss suffered by company does not affect CSRD. However, the loss suffered by company can mitigate the negative relationship between the board of directors meeting and CSRD. For companies, managers, and shareholders, this study can show how to manage the frequency of board meeting effectively, especially when the company is experiencing loss. This research shows that the frequency of board meeting becomes effective when the company suffers loss.

Keywords: Board Meeting, Loss, Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure

JEL Classification: M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Harymawan, Iman and Agustia, Dian and Dwi, Pudyas Aprilia and Ratri, Melinda Cahyaning, Board Meeting, Loss, and Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure (2020). Journal of Security and Sustainability Issues, Vol. 9, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3562006
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
M Ariyani , Y W Nugrahanti
Pengaruh pengungkapan corporate social responsibility terhadap cost of equity perusahaan
Telaah Bisnis , issue 1 Posted: 2016
I E Brick , N K Chidambaran
Board meetings, committee structure, and firm value
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 533 - 553 Posted: 2010
Crossref
D Brown , J F Dillard , S Marshall
Triple bottom line: a business metaphor for a social construct Posted: 2006
J A Conger , D Finegold , E Lawler
Appraising Board Room Performance
Harvard Business Review , volume 76 , p. 136 - 148 Posted: 1998-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
427
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,328
RANK
156,382
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies