Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
PCAOB International Inspections and Merger and Acquisition Outcomes

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

65 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2020

Yongtae Kim

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Lixin (Nancy) Su

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Gaoguang Zhou

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) - Department of Accountancy & Law

Xindong (Kevin) Zhu

City University of Hong Kong

Date Written: March 26, 2020

Abstract

This study examines how PCAOB international inspections of non-U.S. auditors affect international Merger and Acquisition (M&A) outcomes. We find that clients of inspected auditors are more likely to become acquisition targets after the public disclosure of auditor’s inspection report. We also find that deal completion is more likely and deal announcement returns are higher if deals involve targets with auditors for which inspection reports are available. Engagement deficiencies and unremediated quality control deficiencies identified in inspection reports weaken the positive effect of PCAOB oversight on M&A outcomes. Collectively, our results suggest that PCAOB oversight reduces information uncertainty in M&A deals.

Keywords: PCAOB International Inspection, Audit Quality, Merger and Acquisition

JEL Classification: G34; M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Yongtae and Su, Lixin (Nancy) and Zhou, Gaoguang and Zhu, Xindong (Kevin), PCAOB International Inspections and Merger and Acquisition Outcomes (March 26, 2020). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3562051
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Qunfeng Liao , Bin Srinidhi , Ke Wang
Do Family Firms Issue More Readable Annual Reports? Evidence from the United States
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming · 47 Pages · Posted: 30 Jun 2016 · Last revised: 22 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 191
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,324
RANK
373,551
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies