Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Human Resource Practices on Corporate Investment Efficiency

International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2020 Last revised: 11 Mar 2023

Seraina C. Anagnostopoulou

University of Piraeus, Department of Banking and Financial Management

Argyro Avgoustaki

ESCP Business School

Date Written: February 27, 2023

Abstract

We examine the effect of systems of human resource practices on investment efficiency. We argue that employees at all levels of an organization play a significant role in efficient corporate investment. Thus, human resource systems aimed at improving employee quality should be associated with efficient corporate investment. However, the outcome of such systems can be controversial, as they are often ineffective, costly, have dis-synergies and deprive other types of investments of funding, which could lead to deviations from optimal investment. Our findings reveal that systems of human resource practices are negatively associated with investment efficiency, inducing both over- and under-investment. Results are driven mainly by an HR system with a more direct cash cost and are more pronounced with respect to investments in R&D and acquisitions. Overall, our findings are consistent with human resource systems not aligning employees’ and shareholders’ interests, with consequences for investment efficiency.

Keywords: Human resource practices, Human resource systems, Investment efficiency, Over-investment, Under-investment

JEL Classification: O15, G10, G31

Suggested Citation:

Anagnostopoulou, Seraina C. and Avgoustaki, Argyro, The Impact of Human Resource Practices on Corporate Investment Efficiency (February 27, 2023). International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3563037 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3563037
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Empire-Builders and Shirkers: Investment, Firm Performance, and Managerial Incentives
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 489 - 515 Posted: 2006
G Akerlof
Labor Contracts as a Partial Gift Exchange
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 97 , issue 4 , p. 543 - 569 Posted: 1982
E Altman
Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
P C Andreou , I Karasamani , C Louca , Ehrlichd
The Impact of Managerial Ability on Crisis-Period Corporate Investment
Journal of Business Research , volume 79 , p. 107 - 122 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
369
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,520
RANK
184,612
4 Citations
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies