Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Disclosure Noncompliance

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

23 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2020

Axel F. A. Adam-Muller

University of Trier, Fachbereich IV - BWL

Michael H.R. Erkens

Nyenrode Business University; Erasmus School of Economics; Erasmus Research Institute of Management (ERIM)

Date Written: April 1, 2020

Abstract

We examine companies’ risk disclosure compliance with IFRS risk disclosure rules for the first fiscal year following the year 2007. For a sample of 383 firms from 20 European countries we find that average risk disclosure compliance is 62 percent only. Countries’ enforcement strength is generally positively associated with risk disclosure compliance, and even more effective in the presence of outsiders’ monitoring. We highlight that cross-country differences in enforcement must be properly accounted for to ensure consistent risk disclosure compliance.

Keywords: risk disclosure, enforcement, noncompliance

JEL Classification: G18, G30, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Adam-Muller, Axel F. A. and Erkens, Michael H.R., Risk Disclosure Noncompliance (April 1, 2020). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3565695
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
S Abraham , P J Shrives
Improving the relevance of risk factor disclosure in corporate annual reports
British Accounting Review , volume 46 , p. 91 - 107 Posted: 2014
Crossref
C Anilowski , M Feng , D J Skinner
Does earnings guidance affect market returns? The nature and information content of aggregate earnings guidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
Crossref
T Adam , S Dasgupta , S Titman
Financial constraints, competition, and hedging in industry equilibrium
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 2445 - 2473 Posted: 2007
Crossref
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,087
RANK
446,506
3 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies