Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SEC Comment Letters on Firms’ Use of Non-GAAP Measures: The Determinants and Firms’ Responses

41 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2020 Last revised: 4 May 2020

Koren M. Jo

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Shuo Yang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: November 1, 2019

Abstract

This paper explores Securities and Exchange Commission comment letters that address firms’ use of non-Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) measures in 10-Ks, 10-Qs, and earnings releases. We investigate the determinants of firms’ receiving non-GAAP comments and the revisions to non-GAAP reporting undertaken by these recipients. Firms that experience poor GAAP performance and emphasize non-GAAP measures are more likely to receive non-GAAP comments. Recipients of non-GAAP comments are more likely than other reviewed firms to abandon non-GAAP measures in future filings. When recipients of non-GAAP comments continue to report non-GAAP measures, they provide more justifications for the use and reduce the prominence of these measures. However, higher non-GAAP earnings and GAAP earnings differentials do not appear to attract non-GAAP comments. In addition, the amount of non-GAAP exclusions does not decrease after the receipt of non-GAAP comments. Overall, our findings suggest that non-GAAP comments are effective in deemphasizing non-GAAP measures.

Keywords: Comment Letter, Non-GAAP, Earnings Release

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Jo, Koren M. and Yang, Shuo, SEC Comment Letters on Firms’ Use of Non-GAAP Measures: The Determinants and Firms’ Responses (November 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3565868 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3565868
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Abm Industries
ABM Industries Announces Results for First Quarter Fiscal Posted: 2016
A Look at Top SEC Comment Letter Issues in 2017 Posted: 2017
D A Bens , M Cheng , M Neamtiu
The Impact of SEC Disclosure Monitoring on the Uncertainty of Fair Value Estimates
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 2 , p. 349 - 375 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Dirk E. Black , Theodore E. Christensen , Jack T. Ciesielski , Benjamin C. Whipple
Non-GAAP Earnings: A Consistency and Comparability Crisis?
Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 2759312 Pages: 46 Posted: 7 Apr 2016 Last revised: 1 Dec 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
1 Citations
Han-Chung Chen , Yen-Jung Lee , Sheng-Yi Lo , Yong Yu
Qualitative Characteristics of Non-GAAP Disclosures and Non-GAAP Earnings Quality
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming · 63 Pages · Posted: 9 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 339
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
265
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,468
RANK
264,473
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies