Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm-Level Exposure to Epidemic Diseases: COVID-19, SARS, and H1N1

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 24

84 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2020 Last revised: 17 Sep 2022

Tarek A. Hassan

Boston University; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Stephan Hollander

Tilburg University - Tilburg School of Economics and Management

Laurence van Lent

Frankfurt School of Finance and Management

Markus Schwedeler

Boston University

Ahmed Tahoun

London Business School

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 13, 2022

Abstract

We construct text-based measures of the primary concerns listed firms associated with the spread of COVID-19 and other epidemic diseases. We identify which firms perceive to lose or gain from a given epidemic and textually decompose the epidemic’s effect on the firm’s demand and supply. We find that the effects of COVID-19 manifest as a simultaneous shock to demand and supply, with both shocks affecting firms’ market valuations in equal measure on average. By contrast, demand-related impacts appear more important in accounting for the observed collapse in firm-level investment during the COVID-19 crisis.

Keywords: Macroeconomic shocks, epidemic diseases, firms, uncertainty, sentiment, computational linguistics

JEL Classification: E0, E6, F0, G12, I0

Suggested Citation:

Hassan, Tarek Alexander and Hollander, Stephan and van Lent, Laurence and Schwedeler, Markus and Tahoun, Ahmed, Firm-Level Exposure to Epidemic Diseases: COVID-19, SARS, and H1N1 (September 13, 2022). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 24, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3566530 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3566530
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
D Acemoglu , A Ozdaglar , A Tahbaz-Salehi
Microeconomic origins of macroeconomic tail risks
American Economic Review , volume 107 , p. 54 - 108 Posted: 2017
L Alfaro , A Chari , A N Greenland , P K Schott
Aggregate and firm-level stock returns during pandemics, in real time Posted: 2020
T Alon , M Kim , D Lagakos , M Vanvuren
How should policy responses to the COVID-19 pandemic differ in the developing world Posted: 2020
A Arnon , J Ricco , K Smetters
Epidemiological and economic effects of lockdown
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,293
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,434
RANK
12,528
26 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies