Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Caremark Compliance for the Next Twenty-Five Years

Bird, Robert C. (forthcoming 2021), “Caremark Compliance for the Next Twenty-Five Years,” American Business Law Journal, 58(1), ___-___.

35 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2020 Last revised: 25 Jun 2020

Robert C. Bird

University of Connecticut - School of Business; University of Connecticut School of Law

Date Written: March 26, 2020

Abstract

One of the most influential cases in corporate governance is In re Caremark Inc. Derivative Litigation (Caremark). In 1996, Caremark imposed a novel duty on boards of directors to make a good faith attempt to implement and exercise oversight over obligations leading to liability. Breach of this minimal duty has been difficult for plaintiffs to plead and prove, and the caselaw is littered with dismissed Caremark lawsuits. As Caremark’s reign reaches a quarter-century, however, its duties are primed to evolve. Two recent cases, Marchand v. Barnhill and In re Clovis Oncology, Inc. Derivative Litigation, took the rare step of allowing Caremark claims to survive motions to dismiss. These cases signal a new understanding of Caremark obligating boards to not merely attempt oversight, but to proactively ensure that such oversight is effective. This is a subtle but significant change in board duties, and one to which the academic literatures should respond. This manuscript first reviews the Marchand and Clovis cases and argues that these cases hold significance for the future of Caremark claims. Second, this manuscript studies client advisories from law firms and others evaluating the Clovis and Marchand cases, and finds that while these advisories offer useful tactical responses, they lack strategic advice that would benefit boards over the long-term. Filling this gap, this manuscript presents long-term strategic advice for boards in order to not only meet Caremark duties but also thrive as exemplars of good governance and ethical leadership for the next twenty-five years.

Suggested Citation:

Bird, Robert C., Caremark Compliance for the Next Twenty-Five Years (March 26, 2020). Bird, Robert C. (forthcoming 2021), “Caremark Compliance for the Next Twenty-Five Years,” American Business Law Journal, 58(1), ___-___., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3566279 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3566279
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
See also EDGAR H. SCHEIN, ORGANIZATIONAL CULTURE AND LEADERSHIP , volume 7 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Supra Sackmann
, p. 296 - 97
Crossref
Jyotiranjan Gochhayat
Influence of Organizational Culture on Organizational Effectiveness: The Mediating Role of Organizational Communication
BUS. REV , volume 18 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Langevoort
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
334
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,697
RANK
206,108
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies