Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why are US Corporate Boards Under-Diversified among Genders and Races?

52 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2020 Last revised: 30 Apr 2020

Zawadi Lemayian

Washington University in St. Louis

Grace Pownall

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Justin Short

University of Tennessee - Haslam College of Business

Date Written: April 29, 2020

Abstract

The popular and academic literatures report that women, Blacks, Hispanics, and Native Americans are under-represented on US corporate boards of directors, relative to their incidence in the US labor force. We confirm this observation by tabulating the presence of female and under-represented racial minority (URM) directors on the boards of the S&P 1500 firms. We examine two hypotheses that may explain this empirical regularity. The first is that qualified female and URM candidates are scarce. Firms must compete for their services, putting price pressure on their compensation and leading to higher compensation for female and non-URM directors. The second hypothesis is a perception that women and URM directors in general are less valuable to firms, leading to lower compensation for them relative to their white male peers. Our evidence is mixed: we find that women (URM) make significantly higher (insignificantly lower) compensation than males and non-URM directors, controlling for firm and director variables (like age, education, achievements, and committee appointments). However, when we compare the compensation of female and URM directors against male and non-URM directors’ compensation on the same boards, that significant difference reverses, even though they have more education and more achievements than those peers. This result is consistent with the “myopic hypothesis” that predicts female and URM are paid less because of a biased view of their value to the board. However, when we compare the average compensation of female and URM directors who hold board leadership roles (dual CEO-Chairs and independent lead directors), we find very low participation of female and URM directors, but they are paid substantially more than their male and non-URM counterparts. We conclude that females and URM directors are chosen by larger firms with larger and more active boards (and higher base compensation), but are very rarely chosen to lead those boards. When they are chosen for board leadership positions, they are paid significantly more than their non-URM male peers. This result is more consistent with the “glass ceiling” hypothesis that appropriate candidates who add to the diversity of the board are scarce and command higher compensation.

Keywords: corporate governance, diversity, management compensation

JEL Classification: G34, J30, J33, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lemayian, Zawadi and Pownall, Grace and Short, Justin, Why are US Corporate Boards Under-Diversified among Genders and Races? (April 29, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3567420 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3567420
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
R A Frazer , U J Wiersma
Prejudice versus discrimination in the employment interview: We may hire equally, but our memories harbour prejudice
Human Relations , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 191 Posted: 2001
Crossref
E H Gorman
Gender stereotypes, same-gender preferences, and organizational variation in the hiring of women: Evidence from law firms
American Sociological Review , volume 70 , issue 4 , p. 702 - 728 Posted: 2005
Crossref
I Gregory-Smith , B G Main , Iii Reilly , C A
Appointments, pay and performance in UK boardrooms by gender
The Economic Journal , volume 124 , issue 574 , p. 109 - 128 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Harding , Z Lemayian
The effects of mandating information on diversity in proxy statements: Evidence from Regulation S-K Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
256
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,930
RANK
272,962
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies