Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To Report or Not to Report About Coronavirus? The Role of Periodic Reporting in Explaining Capital Market Reactions During the COVID-19 Pandemic

44 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2020 Last revised: 26 May 2020

Kerstin Lopatta

University of Hamburg - Faculty of Business, Economics, and Social Sciences

Ernst-Kenji Alexander

University of Hamburg - Faculty of Business, Economics, and Social Sciences

Laura Maria Gastone

University of Hamburg

Thomas Tammen

University of Hamburg

Date Written: April 3, 2020

Abstract

We use a hand-collected sample of roughly 300 international firms included in leading stock-market indices in ten countries to investigate how firms’ reporting practices during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic impact stock market reactions in term of stock performance and risk. For this, we claim that it is important to analyze whether firms are capable of early risk-detection and of adapting their reporting practices accordingly by examining whether firms promptly and appropriately incorporate critical current global developments, such as the coronavirus pandemic, in their reporting process. We hand-collect firms’ 2019 annual reports and analyze if and how extensively they include assessments of the coronavirus pandemic and its potential impact on their business activities by employing textual analysis. Next, we examine if and how this is incorporated in capital market reactions in terms of stock risk and stock performance. Our results highlight two main findings. First, by using the capital market model, we find that firms’ reporting on COVID-19 in early released annual reports leads to decreases in beta values. Thus, firms’ increased ability to detect risks early and report on the impact of COVID-19 leads to better stock risk assessments by capital markets, an effect that is amplified by state ownership. Second, we show that firms reporting about the coronavirus pandemic in their annual report exhibit a significant improvement in their abnormal returns compared to those that do not. Our findings indicate that investors value firms’ transparency and their ability to promptly incorporate critical global developments in their reporting process. Thus, we show that firms’ reporting practices play an important role in better understanding the current capital markets’ reactions to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.

Keywords: coronavirus, pandemic, COVID-19, reporting, annual reports, stock market

JEL Classification: M41, F30

Suggested Citation:

Lopatta, Kerstin and Alexander, Ernst-Kenji and Gastone, Laura Maria and Tammen, Thomas, To Report or Not to Report About Coronavirus? The Role of Periodic Reporting in Explaining Capital Market Reactions During the COVID-19 Pandemic (April 3, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3567778 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3567778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
5 Citations
Nusret Cakici , Adam Zaremba
Who should be afraid of infections? Pandemic exposure and the cross-section of stock returns
Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money , volume 72 , p. 101333 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Adam Zaremba , Renatas Kizys , Panagiotis Tzouvanas , David Y. Aharon , Ender Demir
The quest for multidimensional financial immunity to the COVID-19 pandemic: Evidence from international stock markets
Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money , volume 71 , p. 101284 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Ender Demir , Gamze Ozturk Danisman
Banking Sector Reactions to the COVID-19: The Role of Bank-Specific Factors and Government Policy Responses
30 Pages · Posted: 16 Jun 2020 · Last revised: 10 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 596
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Gamze Ozturk Danisman , Ender Demir , Adam Zaremba
FINANCIAL RESILIENCE TO THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC: THE ROLE OF BANKING MARKET STRUCTURE
Applied Economics , p. 1 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,518
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,366
RANK
28,488
5 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies