Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Factors Influencing The Enterprise Risk Management Practices and Firm Performance in Jordan and Malaysia

International Journal of Recent Technology and Engineering (IJRTE) ISSN: 2277-3878, Volume-8 Issue-5, January 2020

16 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2020

Saddam Ali Shatnawi

Islamic Science University of Malaysia, Faculty of Economic and Muamalat (FEM)

Dr. Monther Eldaia

Al-Aqsa University

Date Written: January 4, 2020

Abstract

Future of uncertainty and risks in firm businesses and country-based economics remains continuous processes that need to be managed effectively and efficiently. Risks taking is a routine activity in all firms. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) has now become an ultimate concern and a robust risk management approach in all financial and non-financial industries and other sectors throughout the globe. Firms are adopting ERM as a holistic strategy by putting its core components in practice to effectively manage all risks to protect the organizations and stakeholder value. The process of putting ERM into practice is only effective and efficient through identifying the factors that influence its practice in order to improve the firm performance. As a result of this reason, various factors influencing ERM were examined by different investigators as an indirect factor or as a parameter. However, only a few scholars studied it as a major factor or main objective, despite the risks remain a major issue influencing the goals of enterprises in all firm types in both Jordan and Malaysia. In order to fully consolidate the influencing factors on ERM practices, a comparative review of the available literature in Jordan and Malaysia were carried out to excavate the key influencing factors for direct identification in order to improve the firm performance. The factors identified were categorized into three groups; the management-based, firm-based, and ERM-performance-measurement-based factors. Each group of factors was found to influence the success of ERM strategies and practices in both Jordan and Malaysia. Jordan (Middle-East) and Malaysia (South-East Asia) shared a common characteristic of ERM adoptions and practices with regard to firm composition and risk management. Both countries are now pacing up to meet up with ERM practice challenges. Although, ERM still is a relatively new concept in several parts of Middle-East and South-East Asia. Though, Malaysia proved to have more improved and established ERM success factors and researches as compared to Jordan. Additionally, Malaysia was found to have more appeared ERM terms in the Board of Bursa Malaysia (BBM) Guidelines as well as ERM practices under different sectors from 2008 to 2018 compared to Jordanian Amman Stock Exchange (ASE). Thus, it appears that Malaysia has more robust ERM research works, adoptions, practices, and compliance system in place compared to what is obtainable in Jordan. In conclusion, firm managers in Jordan and Malaysia are highly recommended to use these ERM factors identified as strategic and to improve ERM practices in their organizations.

Keywords: ERM, Factors, Firm, Jordan, Malaysia, Performance

Suggested Citation:

Shatnawi, Saddam Ali and Eldaia, Dr. Monther, The Factors Influencing The Enterprise Risk Management Practices and Firm Performance in Jordan and Malaysia (January 4, 2020). International Journal of Recent Technology and Engineering (IJRTE) ISSN: 2277-3878, Volume-8 Issue-5, January 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3568299
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
175 References
T Aabo , J R Fraser , B J Simkins
The rise and evolution of the chief risk officer: enterprise risk management at Hydro One
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 62 - 75 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Abdullah , Z Shukor , Z M Mohamed , A Ahmad
Risk management disclosure: A study on the effect of voluntary risk management disclosure toward firm value
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 400 - 432 Posted: 2015
S N Abdullah , K Ismail , K N Izah
Gender, ethnic and age diversity of the boards of large Malaysian firms and performance Posted: 2017
M Abdullatif , S Kawuq
The role of internal auditing in risk management: evidence from banks in Jordan
Journal of Economic and Administrative Sciences , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 30 - 50 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,058
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,483
RANK
48,334
2 Citations
175 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies