Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Textual Construction of Comparative Space: How Analyst Corporate Governance Reports Redefine and Create ‘Best Practice’

Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal (2018)

39 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2020

Zhiyuan (Simon) Tan

The University of Sydney Business School

Date Written: March 7, 2018

Abstract

Purpose – This paper seeks to contribute to scholarly work on the role of sell-side financial analysts in corporate governance. It examines the more recent work products pertaining specifically to corporate governance that analysts based in the US and UK have generated in the past two decades, namely, their corporate governance reports (CG reports). Specifically, this paper focuses on analysing how analyst CG reports constitute a comparative space in which the governance procedures of companies are evaluated and ‘best practices’ are created.

Design/methodology/approach – This study involves a social constructivist textual analysis of 48 CG reports produced by analysts based in the US and UK between 1998 and 2009.

Findings – Analyst CG reports textually construct a comparative space comprising four dimensions. First, the space is constructed for some carefully edited users to evaluate the governance of companies. Second, the construction of this space requires the selection of ‘building materials’, i.e., governance issues included in the space that render companies amenable to evaluation and comparison. Third, by linking the range of governance issues chosen to formal regulations, firms are rendered governable and regulatory requirements reinterpreted. Lastly, by using different types of inscriptions, such as narratives and tables, the space highlights ‘winners’, i.e., those companies which do better than others, and constructs their governance procedures as ‘best practices’.

Research limitations/implications – This research provides a first step towards an in-depth understanding of analyst CG reports. The insights from this paper generate a range of areas for future research, including how these reports are produced and used.

Originality/value – This paper adds to the existing literature focusing on the role of analysts in corporate governance. It extends previous studies by examining the more recent and debatable work products generated by analysts, namely, their CG reports, and suggests an extended corporate governance role for them. Theoretically, analyst CG reports are conceptualised as ‘inscriptions’ that construct ‘documentary reality’. The notion of ‘editing’ is also drawn upon, to analyse a particular way in which documentary reality is constructed. Accordingly, this paper broadens the theoretical perspectives used in corporate governance research.

Keywords: Comparative space, corporate governance reports, editing, inscriptions, sell-side financial analysts, textual reality construction

JEL Classification: M40,G34

Suggested Citation:

Tan, Simon, Textual Construction of Comparative Space: How Analyst Corporate Governance Reports Redefine and Create ‘Best Practice’ (March 7, 2018). Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3568837
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
R V Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of corporate governance worldwide: What is the trigger? Organization Studies , volume 25 , p. 417 - 446 Posted: 2004
R V Aguilera , K Desender , M Bednar , J H Lee
Connecting the dots: Bringing external corporate governance into the corporate governance puzzle
The Academy of Management Annals , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 483 - 573 Posted: 2015
Crossref
D Beunza , R Garud
Calculators, lemmings or frame-makers? The intermediary role of securities analysts Posted: 2007
Crossref
B P Bloomfield , T Vurdubakis
Re-presenting technology: IT consultancy reports as textual reality construction
Sociology , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 455 - 477 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
821
RANK
812,529
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies