Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ex-Post Equity Awards and Measurement of the Pay-Performance Relation

32 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2020

S.P. Kothari

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Georg Rickmann

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management

Date Written: April 4, 2020

Abstract

The convention in corporate financial disclosures, ExecuComp, and academic research is to treat the fair value of equity grants to CEOs as compensation for performance in the year of the grant. In contrast, we provide evidence that equity awards, which constitute a dominant share of CEO pay, are used to reward managers ex-post for performance in the preceding fiscal year. Many firms explicitly mention this practice in their proxy statements. Empirically, equity grants increase substantially with the firm’s performance for the immediately preceding year. Our findings have important implications for the measurement of the pay-performance relation. The convention of treating equity grants as compensation for the year containing the grant, rather than for the preceding year, results in a dramatically underestimated pay-performance relation. Adjusting total compensation to include equity granted after the end of the performance year, as opposed to during the performance year, more than doubles the pay-to-performance elasticity.

Keywords: executive compensation; pay-performance relation; equity compensation

Suggested Citation:

Kothari, S.P. and Rickmann, Georg, Ex-Post Equity Awards and Measurement of the Pay-Performance Relation (April 4, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3568725 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3568725
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,111
RANK
429,664
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies