Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Banks’ Productivity: Evidence from the Banking Industry in Bangladesh

Rashid, M.H.U., Zobair, S.A.M., Chowdhury, M.A.I. et al. Corporate governance and banks’ productivity: evidence from the banking industry in Bangladesh. Bus Res (2020). DOI: 10.1007/s40685-020-00109-x

23 Pages Posted: 7 May 2020

Md. Harun Ur Rashid

Edith Cowan University; International Islamic University Chittagong (IIUC) - Department of Economics & Banking

Date Written: March 26, 2020

Abstract

Though remarkable literature exploring productivity and efficiency has emerged since the last half of the previous century, but dearth studies have been found in showing the impact of corporate governance on banks’ productivity. The study aims to investigate the banks’ productivity and its relationship with corporate governance. For this purpose, the study examines the productivity of 30 listed banks of Bangladesh deploying a Malmquist Productivity Index (an extension of Data Envelopment Analysis) with panel data covering the period of five years from 2013 to 2017. The empirical results show that the average productivity of the banks is 1.03%. Finally, the ordinary least square (OLS), fixed effect (FE), and random effect (RE) regression were run separately. The research outcomes show that the productivity of Bangladeshi banks is significantly influenced by financial performance, ownership structure, and board characteristics. The study provides the researchers, academicians, management of the banks, and regulatory body a new insight of how corporate governance influences the banks’ productivity so that they can formulate a better policy to generate more productivity.

Keywords: Productivity, MPI, Corporate governance, Banking industry, Bangladesh

Suggested Citation:

Rashid, Md. Harun Ur, Corporate Governance and Banks’ Productivity: Evidence from the Banking Industry in Bangladesh (March 26, 2020). Rashid, M.H.U., Zobair, S.A.M., Chowdhury, M.A.I. et al. Corporate governance and banks’ productivity: evidence from the banking industry in Bangladesh. Bus Res (2020). DOI: 10.1007/s40685-020-00109-x, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3569017
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R B Adams , H Mehran
Bank board structure and performance: Evidence for large bank holding companies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 243 - 267 Posted: 2012
Crossref
W M Al-Ahdal , M Alsamhi , M I Tabash , N H Farhan
The impact of corporate governance on financial performance of Indian and GCC listed firms: An empirical investigation
Research in International Business and Finance Posted: 2020
Crossref
C Alexakis , M Izzeldin , J Johnes , V Pappas
Performance and productivity in Islamic and conventional banks: Evidence from the global financial crisis
Economic Modelling , volume 79 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
721
RANK
805,600
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies