Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Social-Psychological Perspective on Executive Compensation: Evidence From a Two-Tier Board System

Journal of Business Economics

Posted: 4 May 2020 Last revised: 26 Oct 2021

Anja Schwering

University of Potsdam

Friedrich Sommer

University of Bayreuth

Florian Uepping

University of Münster

Sandra Winkelmann

University of Giessen

Date Written: October 25, 2021

Abstract

This paper investigates whether and how social-psychological mechanisms, namely reciprocity and similarity with regard to demographics and experiences, affect CEO compensation packages with respect to the levels of total, fixed, and short- and mid-term compensation as well as the variable proportion of the compensation package. We use evidence from Germany as it is considered a prototype of a two-tier board system. Given the primary roles of both the CEO and the chair of the supervisory board, we especially highlight social-psychological mechanisms in the process leading to the final compensation package. Using a hand-collected sample of non-financial constituents of the German HDAX, we find that reciprocity can lead to a compensation package that is more favorable for the CEO. Results on similarity are ambivalent such that the effects of similarity on CEO compensation − both positive and negative – may depend on the dimension of similarity. Finally, the chair’s CEO experience, both inside and outside the focal company, also plays an essential role in shaping CEO compensation. More specifically, CEO experience in another company is associated with more favorable compensation. In contrast, having a chair that has been CEO at the focal company relates less favorable compensation packages except for when the CEO has also been recruited internally.

Keywords: executive compensation, social-psychological mechanisms, corporate governance, two-tier board

JEL Classification: G30, M52, J33

Suggested Citation:

Schwering, Anja and Sommer, Friedrich and Uepping, Florian and Winkelmann, Sandra, The Social-Psychological Perspective on Executive Compensation: Evidence From a Two-Tier Board System (October 25, 2021). Journal of Business Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3570479 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3570479
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
965
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies