Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Mandatory Auditor Tenure Disclosures on Ratification Voting, Auditor Dismissal, and Audit Pricing

62 Pages Posted: 4 May 2020 Last revised: 9 Jun 2021

Ryan Dunn

Auburn University - School of Accountancy

Nathan G. Lundstrom

University of Kansas

Michael S. Wilkins

University of Kansas

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 8, 2021

Abstract

Recent amendments to Auditing Standard (AS) 3101 require disclosure of the initial year of the auditor-client relationship in the audit report. As the standard was being discussed, auditors, clients, and some PCAOB members expressed reservations about the necessity of tenure disclosures and were particularly concerned about disclosing tenure in the audit report. Our purpose is to investigate whether the tenure disclosures mandated by AS 3101 are associated with changes in stakeholder behavior. We find that after the implementation date, ratification votes against the auditor and the probability of subsequent auditor dismissal increase for long-tenured versus short-tenured auditors. Results from a path analysis further suggest that the relative increase in dismissal for long-tenured auditors appears to be influenced directly through tenure disclosures and indirectly through ratification voting. We also find that negotiating power may decrease for long-tenured auditors as evidenced by lower audit fees. Our results are comparable for companies that voluntarily disclosed and companies that did not disclose auditor tenure in their proxy statements prior to the AS 3101 amendment. Overall, our study suggests that mandatory disclosure of auditor tenure in the audit report significantly affects stakeholder behavior. The PCAOB should consider our findings carefully as they evaluate whether AS 3101 is achieving its intended purpose.

Keywords: Auditor Tenure, PCAOB, Auditor Ratification, Auditor Dismissal, Audit Fees

Suggested Citation:

Dunn, Ryan and Lundstrom, Nathan G. and Wilkins, Michael S., The Impact of Mandatory Auditor Tenure Disclosures on Ratification Voting, Auditor Dismissal, and Audit Pricing (June 8, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3570919 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3570919
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
B C Fitzgerald , T C Omer , A M Thompson
Audit partner tenure and internal control reporting quality: US evidence from the not-For-Profit sector
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 334 - 364 Posted: 2017
Crossref
M A Geiger , K Raghunandan
Auditor tenure and audit reporting failures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 78 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Glass Lewis
Guidelines an Overview of the Glass Lewis Approach to Proxy Advice Posted: 2019-10-29
A Ghosh , D Moon
Auditor tenure and perceptions of audit quality
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 585 - 612 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,608
RANK
284,107
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies