Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Banking Relationships, Managerial Incentives, Board Monitoring and Corporate Cash Holdings: An Emerging Market Perspective

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, volume 44, pages 353–378. (2015)

Posted: 5 May 2020

Hai-Chin Yu

Chung Yuan Christian University

Ben J. Sopranzetti

Rutgers Business School: Newark and New Brunswick

Cheng-Few Lee

Rutgers University, Newark, School of Business-Newark, Department of Finance & Economics

Date Written: April 9, 2015

Abstract

This paper uses Taiwanese data to examine the impact of firm-level corporate governance mechanisms on firms’ average cash holdings. Specifically, it examines how a firm’s number of banking relationships and the percentages of managerial ownership and board ownership impact the firm’s level of cash holdings. We document that higher percentages of managerial ownership and board ownership are associated with higher levels of corporate cash holding. Our results are consistent with the notion that managerial incentives and board monitoring are substitutes for each other. The substitution effect is especially pronounced when firms have poorly incentivized managers. We find that firms with a larger number of banking relationships are associated with lower levels of cash holdings. We find no evidence of a bank monitoring free-rider problem. We also document a life-cycle effect in the drivers of cash holdings: there are substantial differences in the drivers of cash holdings for firms that have been in business for more than 5 years relative to those that have not been in business less than 5 years.

Keywords: Bank monitoring, Managerial ownership, Banking relationship, Corporate governance, Cash holdings

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G30, G31

Suggested Citation:

Yu, Hai-Chin and Sopranzetti, Ben J. and Lee, Cheng-Few, Banking Relationships, Managerial Incentives, Board Monitoring and Corporate Cash Holdings: An Emerging Market Perspective (April 9, 2015). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, volume 44, pages 353–378. (2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3571945
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
502
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies