Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Local Social Norms Affect Investors’ Involvement in Social Activism? Revisiting the Case of US Institutional Investors

50 Pages Posted: 4 May 2020

Steven F. Cahan

University of Auckland Business School

Chen Chen

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Lily Chen

Australian National University

Date Written: April 8, 2020

Abstract

Evidence provided by Dyck et al. (2019) suggests that, in contrast to European investors, local norms related to environmental and social (E&S) beliefs do not affect the willingness of US institutional investors to push for E&S improvements in US firms. We revisit this issue except, instead of measuring E&S social norms at the country level, we allow E&S social norms to vary between states. We find that the shareholdings of non-local US institutional investors from states with strong E&S social norms are positively related to E&S-related shareholder activism, indicating that local E&S social norms do matter for US institutional investors.

Keywords: Social Activism, Local Norm, Institutional Investors

JEL Classification: G02, G23, G30

Suggested Citation:

Cahan, Steven F. and Chen, Chen and Chen, Lily, Do Local Social Norms Affect Investors’ Involvement in Social Activism? Revisiting the Case of US Institutional Investors (April 8, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3571199 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3571199
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
S Asch
Opinions and social pressure
Scientific American , volume 193 , p. 31 - 35 Posted: 1955-11
Crossref
D Benoit , Grind
Activists' secret alley: Large investors quietly back campaigns to force change at US companies
The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2015-08-10
T Besser
The significance of community to business social responsibility
Rural Sociology , volume 63 , issue 3 , p. 412 - 431 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Rob Bauer , Jeroen Derwall , Colin Tissen
Legal Origins and Institutional Investors' Support for Corporate Social Responsibility
63 Pages · Posted: 5 May 2022 · Downloads: 207
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,174
RANK
545,411
1 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies