Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Moderating Effect of Organizational Changes on the Influence of Ethical Decision Making on Public Sector Internal Auditor Performance

Contemporary Economics (2019), Vol. 13 No. 4, pp. 480-493

14 Pages Posted: 4 May 2020

Indrawati Yuhertiana

Universitas Pembangunan Nasional "Veteran" JAWA TIMUR

Corry Natasha Patrioty

PERTAMINA (Indonesia State-Owned Oil & Gas Enterprise)

Nafsiah Mohamed

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia (UTM)

Date Written: December 27, 2019

Abstract

This study investigates the role of organizational change in moderating the effect of ethical decision making on internal auditor performance. The study population comprises internal auditors who work in the public sector (a government-owned company in Indonesia). Smart Partial Least Square statistic software is used to test the hypotheses. This study has led to three findings. First, this study finds that ethical decision making provides support for auditor performance. Second, this study finds that organizational change does not provide support for auditor performance. Third, the analysis shows that the role of organizational change does not succeed in helping to strengthen or weaken ethical decision making in auditor performance.

Keywords: Organizational changes, Ethical decision making, Internal auditor performance, Public sector

JEL Classification: M420, M480, H830, L2

Suggested Citation:

Yuhertiana, Indrawati and Patrioty, Corry Natasha and Mohamed, Nafsiah, The Moderating Effect of Organizational Changes on the Influence of Ethical Decision Making on Public Sector Internal Auditor Performance (December 27, 2019). Contemporary Economics (2019), Vol. 13 No. 4, pp. 480-493, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3571346
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
U Afifah , R N Sari , R Anugerah , Z M Sanusi
The effect of role conflict, self-efficacy, professional ethical sensitivity on auditor performance with emotional quotient as moderating variable
Procedia Economics and Finance , volume 31 , p. 206 - 212 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A A Armenakis , A G Bedeian
Organizational change: A review of theory and research in the 1990s
Journal of Management , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 293 - 315 Posted: 1999
Crossref
D F Arnold , J W Dorminey , A A Neidermeyer , P E Neidermeyer
Internal and external auditor ethical decision-making
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 300 - 322 Posted: 2013
Crossref
W W Burke , G H Litwin
A causal model of organizational performance and change
Journal of Management , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 523 - 545 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
642
RANK
538,134
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies