Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Post Tax Reform and Corporate Effective Tax Rate: Evidence from Tunisia

11 Pages Posted: 6 May 2020

Abdelkader Kasraoui

Ecole Supérieure de Commerce de Tunis

Date Written: April 10, 2020

Abstract

This study examines the impact of the tax reform on corporate effective tax rate (ETR) and firm-specifics in Tunisia for the post tax reform period (after the fiscal year 2014).

The corporate effective tax rate is a component by major firm-specific characteristics, especially firm size, capital structure (leverage), inventory intensity, capital intensity…

The ETR provides information about the tax burdens and can be used as a political instrument to boost the economic reliance. The post tax reform period reflects the impact of lower corporate tax rate on the firm characteristics.

The sample consists of 112 firm-year observations from 16 listed companies in Tunis Stock Exchange (known Bourse de Tunis- BVMT) covering seven years from 2010 to 2016.Our result indicates that the tax reform had a significant impact only on the inventory variable but no significant results on the others firm characteristics for the post-tax reform period.

These findings urge the Tunisian’s tax authority to reformulate the corporate tax system.


Keywords: Tax Reform, Corporate Effective Tax Rate, Tunisia

JEL Classification: G30, G32, M4

Suggested Citation:

Kasraoui, Abdelkader, Post Tax Reform and Corporate Effective Tax Rate: Evidence from Tunisia (April 10, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3572971 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3572971
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
J Alm
Analyzing and Reforming Tunisia's Tax System Posted: 2015
R Boadway , N Bruce , J Mintz
Taxation, Inflation, and the Effective Marginal Tax Rate on Capital in Canada
The Canadian Journal of Economics , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 62 - 79 Posted: 1984
Crossref
T Breusch
Testing for Autocorrelation in Dynamic Linear Models
Australian Economic Papers , volume 17 , p. 334 - 355 Posted: 1978
Crossref
T Breusch , A Pagan
The Lagrange multiplier test and its applications to model specification in econometrics
Review of Economic Studies , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 239 - 253 Posted: 1980
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
859
RANK
601,090
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies