Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Quality of Audit Firms Entering the Public Company Audit Market

51 Pages Posted: 6 May 2020 Last revised: 24 Dec 2024

Andrew Kitto

University of Massachusetts Amherst

Phillip T. Lamoreaux

Arizona State University

Devin Williams

University of Oklahoma

Date Written: October 09, 2024

Abstract

Little is known about the population of audit firms that successfully enter the U.S. public company audit market with no prior public company audit experience. We find that from 2004 to 2017, 388 “New Entrant” audit firms successfully entered this market. New Entrants receive more than 15% of PCAOB inspections among triennially inspected auditors, suggesting that the PCAOB expends significant effort overseeing these firms. We find that, compared to multiple control groups, New Entrant auditors provide lower quality audits as measured by a higher likelihood of misstatements, PCAOB-identified deficiencies and disciplinary orders, and lower audit effort. New Entrants also collect lower audit fees and their clients are more likely to subsequently dismiss them. Collectively, our results indicate that clients are willing to hire an audit firm with no reputation for public company audits to obtain a low fee. However, higher dismissal rates suggest that clients are unable to infer lower quality ex ante and demand at least a minimum level of audit quality. 

Keywords: Audit market, audit competition, non-Big 4 audit firms, audit quality, PCAOB

JEL Classification: K23, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Kitto, Andrew and Lamoreaux, Phillip T. and Williams, Devin, The Quality of Audit Firms Entering the Public Company Audit Market (October 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3572688 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3572688
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
I Abramova , B Gipper , X Su
Shaking the Faith: Global Frauds and Trust in Capital Markets Working paper Posted: 2024
G A Akerlof
The Market for Lemons: Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection process -Preliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
508
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,576
RANK
127,186
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies