Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Corporate Governance on Investment Decision: Whether Transparency Decides Investment Decision?

International Journal for Science and Advanced Research in Technology, Vol. 4 No. 8, p. 208-211, August 2018.

4 Pages Posted: 6 May 2020

Ravishankar G

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Sathishkumar R

SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Trichy

Date Written: August 30, 2018

Abstract

The present paper reveals that an investor’s investment decision is based on the internal as well as external factors. Corporate governance is an external factor at the same time human psychology acts as an internal factor in the investment decision. The corporate governance plays an important role in the investment decision process through publishing company information in all aspects but the investors perceive the information according to their own perceptions and assumptions in the way of their psychology. Hence, the company's transparency has a limited role in the investment decision and it works to some extent only and the remaining part of the investment decision process is occupied by human behaviour. It cannot be assured that the investor will behave rationally always towards their investment decision even though the company transparency is well and good. Every investor should behave rationally towards their investment decision. Hence, it is an investor duty to follow the information which is presented by the company but sometimes the investors failed to follow it. Therefore, the investment decision of investors is beyond the scope of company transparency due to investor psychology. Hence, the study suggests that a behavioural survey will be helpful to find the factor behind the investors’ investment decision.

Keywords: Behavioural Finance, Behavioural Survey, Corporate Governance, Investor Psychology, Investment Decision, Stakeholders

JEL Classification: D20, D21

Suggested Citation:

G, Ravishankar and R, Sathishkumar, Impact of Corporate Governance on Investment Decision: Whether Transparency Decides Investment Decision? (August 30, 2018). International Journal for Science and Advanced Research in Technology, Vol. 4 No. 8, p. 208-211, August 2018., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3572796
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Robert A Baron
Cognition: Thinking, Deciding, Communicating. In: Psychology. Prentice Hall of India Private Limited Posted: 2003
Craig Berman
Social Factors Influencing a Financial Decision Posted: 2018-02-20
V K Bhalla
Investment: Objectives and Risks. In: Investment Management Security Analysis and Portfolio Management. 12th ed. Rajendra Ravindra Printers (Private) Limited Posted: 1982
Dorothee Enskog
How Culture Impacts Investment Behaviour Posted: 2015-02-20
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,052
RANK
416,013
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies