Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statements Timeliness: The Case of Malaysian Listed Industrial Product Companies

Asian Academy of Management Journal, Vol. 24, Supp. 2, 127–141, 2019

15 Pages Posted: 7 May 2020

GholamReza Zandi (PhD), CPA Australia

Universiti Kuala Lumpur Business School

Date Written: October 25, 2019

Abstract

Timeliness of corporate annual financial reports is a crucial factor which affects the usefulness of information made available to external users especially investors. The purpose of this study is to examine the impact of corporate governance towards companies’ performances which consequently affect the timeliness of any report submitted to the local authority. This study takes the industrial product sector and the annual reports of companies operating therein and a list of submission dates of annual report to Bursa Malaysia by Malaysian public listed companies for data analysis. Regression analyses were performed to examine the relationship between corporate governance and company’s performance using return on asset (ROA) and return on equity (ROE) which will eventually affect the timeliness submission of the annual report to Bursa Malaysia. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) duality and independent audit committee carry a significant relationship with timeliness of financial reporting whereas 8.8% of the studied companies submit early within the statutory requirement while the remaining 91.2% submit timely.

Keywords: timeliness, corporate governance, Bursa Malaysia, audit committee, practitioners

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Zandi, GholamReza, Financial Statements Timeliness: The Case of Malaysian Listed Industrial Product Companies (October 25, 2019). Asian Academy of Management Journal, Vol. 24, Supp. 2, 127–141, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3573952
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S N Abdullah
Board composition, CEO duality and performance among Malaysian listed companies
Corporate Governance , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 47 - 61 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S N Abdullah
Board structure and ownership in Malaysia: The case of distressed listed companies
Corporate Governance , volume 6 , issue 5 , p. 582 - 594 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Z Abidin , N M Kamal , K Jusoff
Board structure and corporate performance in Malaysia
International Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 1 , issue 1 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Hope Osayantin Aifuwa , Musa Saidu
Audit Committee Attributes and Timeliness of Corporate Financial Reporting in Nigeria
Accounting and Finance, 88(2), 115-124, 2020 · 11 Pages · Posted: 24 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 1,387
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
565
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,754
RANK
111,454
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies