Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Consequences of CEOs’ Early-life Exposure to Disasters and Violent Crime

45 Pages Posted: 6 May 2020

Joanna Golden

University of Memphis - School of Accountancy

Mark J. Kohlbeck

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Date Written: April 9, 2020

Abstract

Understanding the behavior of chief executive officers (CEOs) enables investors, regulators, and others to better appreciate the corporate decisions a CEO makes. Among the many aspects that determine CEO behavior are early-life experiences, we examine whether a CEO’s exposure to two important events — fatal natural disasters and violent crime — during the individual’s formative years is associated with the firm’s financial reporting quality. We provide evidence of a non-monotonic association between early-life exposures to such events and financial reporting outcomes. When a CEO has moderate levels of early-life exposure to deaths associated with natural disasters or to violent crimes, financial reporting quality is lower, consistent with the CEO being over-confident in dealing with risk. However, as exposure increases to extreme levels, the CEO becomes more aware of the risk effect and, as a result, more careful about decisions that could elevate the firm’s risk; thus, we find evidence of higher financial reporting quality.

Keywords: CEO Early-life exposure, natural disasters, violent crime, financial reporting quality

JEL Classification: D81, G32, M41, M54, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Golden, Joanna and Kohlbeck, Mark J., Financial Reporting Consequences of CEOs’ Early-life Exposure to Disasters and Violent Crime (April 9, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3573138 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3573138
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
C Antoniou , A Kumar , A Maligkris
Terrorist attacks, managerial sentiment, and corporate policies. Working paper Posted: 2017
P G Audia , H R Greve
Less likely to fail: low performance, firm size, and factory expansion in the shipbuilding industry
Management Science , volume 52 , p. 83 - 94 Posted: 2006
Crossref
L Bamber , J Jiang , I Wang
What's my style? The influence of top managers on voluntary corporate financial disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
Crossref
E Benmelech , C Frydman
Military CEOs
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , p. 43 - 59 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,673
RANK
331,544
1 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies