Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Corporate Personality to Corporate Governance: The Transformation of International Human Rights Protection in Corporate Governance Structures

Nehal Bhuta & Rodrigo Vallejo (eds), Human Rights and Global Governance, Oxford University Press, Oxford 2020

Maastricht Faculty of Law Working Paper

45 Pages Posted: 7 May 2020

Anna Beckers

Maastricht University; European University Institute - Department of Law (LAW)

Date Written: January 6, 2020

Abstract

This article is concerned with the role of corporate governance systems in the global governance of human rights protection. It departs from the observation that corporations have been more strongly integrated into the system of international human rights protection, but differently than initially anticipated by international lawyers. Rather than moving towards acceptance of corporations as subjects that can or should have international legal personality, corporations become accepted as actors that should instrumentalize their own private governance systems for international human rights protection. To that end, this article develops two interlinked arguments: First, it shows doctrinally how the recent developments in the global governance of business and human rights, notably the UNGP, have led to corporate governance structures becoming instrumentalised as the core and central means for corporate human rights protection at the expense of state-based human rights protection. Second, it is shown how this use of corporate governance for international human rights protection is likely to change the very nature of the international human rights that are supposed to be protected. By means of reviewing recent empirical studies on how corporations incorporate human rights within their governance structure and comparing this to the related understanding in international human rights law, it is revealed how the origin, justification and content of human rights as well as the required processes and remedies to ensure their protection changes in the translation from a state-centric to a corporate-centric understanding. In corporate governance structures, human rights become de-formalized and re-modelled in their meaning and enforcement. This result poses new questions, most importantly whether such a development is to be welcomed or criticised, i.e. whether this ‘corporate understanding’ of human rights should be accepted or whether it is necessary to ‘go back to the starting point’ of a state-centric understanding. The contribution concludes tentatively in a twofold direction. It argues for an inevitably stronger role of private law in this ‘new reality’ of human rights protection, as private law is ultimately the law that may regulate corporations as private actors. Simultaneously, it outlines and highlights the tensions that lawyers –both human rights lawyers as well as private and corporate lawyers – will face when attempting to realise this goal.

Keywords: Business and Human Rights, Corporate Social Responsibility, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Beckers, Anna, From Corporate Personality to Corporate Governance: The Transformation of International Human Rights Protection in Corporate Governance Structures (January 6, 2020). Nehal Bhuta & Rodrigo Vallejo (eds), Human Rights and Global Governance, Oxford University Press, Oxford 2020, Maastricht Faculty of Law Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3573755 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3573755
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
J G Ruggie
Business and Human Rights: Together at Last? A Conversation with John Ruggie
Fletcher Forum of World Affairs Posted: 2016
L J Obara , K Peattie
Bridging the great divide? Making sense of the human rights-CSR relationship in UK multinational enterprises
Journal of World Business Posted: 2018
Crossref
Joseph Mcbeth
Obara
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
813
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,898
RANK
69,530
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies