Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Bureaucracies of Company Ownership in France

CORPORATE FINANCE: GOVERNANCE, CORPORATE CONTROL & ORGANIZATION eJOURNAL Vol. 12, No. 98: Jun 11, 2020

EUROPEAN PRIVATE LAW eJOURNAL, Vol. 12, No. 32: Jun 16, 2020

5 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2020 Last revised: 22 Jun 2020

Munachiso OGU-JUDE

UNICAF & Unicaf University

Date Written: April 14, 2020

Abstract

“A company’s responsibility is to increase profit.” This idea has motivated a lot of entrepreneurs towards company formation. However, for a business to be successful, a person or group of persons must invest time, money, assets, and/or personal skill towards the development of the business idea. As businesses expand and become more profitable, it will be fair for these persons who have invested towards the success of the business to have the absolute freedom to control the business as they wish. For registered companies, this is not the case. The mode of structuring and organising of a company is defined by the French Commercial Code, the French Civil Code and the bylaws of the company . This means that regardless of how much a person has invested, such a person is still subject to rules and guidelines for the running of the company. Arguably, this could be the reason for the growing popularity of other forms of business as compared to registered companies.

This paper analyses the bureaucracies associated with the structuring and organising of companies under the French Legal system. It is divided into two parts. The first part of this paper discusses business formation and the corporate standards that affect the running of the business while the second part discusses the purpose of government-imposed regulations to the corporate structure.

Keywords: French legal system, French commercial code, Afep-Medef Code, Loi Sapin II, Middlenext Code, Article 1832 of the French Civil Code

JEL Classification: K20

Suggested Citation:

OGU-JUDE, Munachiso, The Bureaucracies of Company Ownership in France (April 14, 2020). CORPORATE FINANCE: GOVERNANCE, CORPORATE CONTROL & ORGANIZATION eJOURNAL Vol. 12, No. 98: Jun 11, 2020, EUROPEAN PRIVATE LAW eJOURNAL, Vol. 12, No. 32: Jun 16, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3575484 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3575484
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
877
RANK
805,600
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies