Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
De Jure Convergence, De Facto Divergence: A Comparison of Factual Implementation of Shareholder Derivative Suit Enforcement in the United States and the United Kingdom

European Business Law Review, 30(6): 909-930, 2019

31 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2020

David Gindis

University of Warwick - Warwick Law School

David Gibbs

University of East Anglia (UEA)

Date Written: December 1, 2019

Abstract

Many legal systems have been converging toward a US shareholder-centric model of corporate law and governance. This includes de jure rules relating to derivative enforcement. Despite convergence of the UK system towards the US model, each system continues to diverge as regards levels of shareholder enforcement. This article suggests that this divergence can be explained by the way the courts implement the derivative procedure de facto. A comparative assessment of de facto implementation in the US and the UK reveals that while courts in both systems are reluctant to interfere with the business judgment of the board, the US courts are willing to analyse whether board decisions were substantively reached, contributing to the levels of enforcement based on the way costs are allocated. Conversely, ingrained traditions of the UK courts place a high evidentiary burden on the shareholder, which they are unlikely to meet. Since costs are allocated to the loser in the UK, the factual implementation continues to serve as a strong disincentive for private shareholder enforcement and good governance.

Keywords: US corporate law, UK company law, corporate governance, derivative litigation, de jure convergence, de facto divergence

JEL Classification: K22, K41, K42

Suggested Citation:

Gindis, David and Gibbs, David, De Jure Convergence, De Facto Divergence: A Comparison of Factual Implementation of Shareholder Derivative Suit Enforcement in the United States and the United Kingdom (December 1, 2019). European Business Law Review, 30(6): 909-930, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3576569 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3576569
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Cordell Airey V
Posted: 2006
Crossref
Gower
Principles of Modern Company Law , volume 652 Posted: 1997
Barrett V Duckett
Posted: 1995
Barrett V Duckett
, p. 368 - 377
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,426
RANK
357,435
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies