Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
With Great Power Comes Great Flexibility: The Impact of Prestigious CEO Awards on Innovation

54 Pages Posted: 11 May 2020

Julian Atanassov

University of Nebraska

Keun Jae Park

Washington & Jefferson College

Date Written: April 15, 2020

Abstract

Contrary to the previous literature, we document that winning a prestigious CEO award can be beneficial to firms by reducing managerial career concerns and encouraging long-term productivity. Using propensity score matching techniques, we find that award-winning CEOs innovate more than the control group, both in terms of the number of patents and the number of citations per patent. This finding is consistent with both managerial flexibility and overconfidence theories, and inconsistent with the private benefits view. After further analysis, we show that there is a clear increase in CEO power and job security after winning a prestigious award and no such increase in several measures of overconfidence. We also document that the positive effect of CEO awards on innovation is weaker for firms with high institutional ownership. These results provide overall support for the managerial flexibility theory.

Keywords: superstar CEO, business awards, prestigious awards, innovation, managerial entrenchment, corporate governance, agency theory, managerial myopia, overconfidence, institutional ownership

JEL Classification: O31, G34

Suggested Citation:

Atanassov, Julian and Park, Keun Jae, With Great Power Comes Great Flexibility: The Impact of Prestigious CEO Awards on Innovation (April 15, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3576629 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3576629
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
V Acharya , R P Baghai , K V Subramanian
Labor laws and innovation. Unpublished working Paper Posted: 2012
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell , R Griffith , P Howitt
Competition and innovation: an inverted U relationship
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
Crossref
J Atanassov
Do hostile takeovers stifle innovation? Evidence from antitakeover legislation and corporate patenting
Journal of Finance , volume 68 , p. 1097 - 1131 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,031
RANK
420,501
2 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies