Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To Tell or Not to Tell? Corporate Tax Aggressiveness and Management Voluntary Effective Tax Rate Forecasts

Posted: 8 May 2020 Last revised: 15 Jun 2023

Ying Mao

Lingnan University

Ke Wang

University of Alberta - School of Business

Zheng Wang

City University of Hong Kong

Date Written: June 14, 2023

Abstract

As taxes take away a considerable portion of profits, in recent years, more firms have started to issue voluntary management forecasts on effective tax rates (ETRs) to guide investors in understanding the aggregated expected effects of the issuing firms’ tax planning strategies. However, voluntary ETR forecasts can also catch attention from the public and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to the issuing firms’ tax practices. In this study, we examine whether tax-aggressive firms are more or less likely to issue voluntary ETR forecasts. Our empirical results show a significant and negative association between firms’ issuance of voluntary ETR forecasts and their levels of tax aggressiveness, suggesting that, for tax-aggressive firms, the potential costs of public attention and regulatory scrutiny outweighs the benefits of improved transparency. We confirm the nature of such costs by showing that, after issuing a voluntary ETR forecast that indicates future aggressive tax planning behavior, firms experience negative media sentiment, more downloads of their financial information by the IRS, and a higher likelihood of IRS audits. Our cross-sectional analyses further reveal that the negative association between tax aggressiveness and management voluntary ETR forecasts is stronger for firms subject to higher public or regulatory scrutiny or greater reputational concern, but weaker for firms with higher tax-induced information opacity/uncertainty or greater external financing need.

Keywords: tax aggressiveness, ETR forecasts, reputational cost, IRS, voluntary disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Mao, Ying and Wang, Ke and Wang, Zheng, To Tell or Not to Tell? Corporate Tax Aggressiveness and Management Voluntary Effective Tax Rate Forecasts (June 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3576006
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
314
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies