Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Continuity of the Board of Statutory Auditors Across Social, Economic and Political Institutional Changes

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 11 May 2020

Michael Jones

University of Bristol

Andrea Melis

University of Cagliari

Date Written: April 16, 2020

Abstract

This study examines how and why the board of statutory auditors, an important accounting institution, has continued to operate from its establishment in 1882 until today, with little change in its nature and role. This is despite the fundamental changes that have occurred in the Italian social, economic and political environment. This study reveals that even though Italy’s societal institutions have substantially changed, the board of statutory auditors has continued to exist with no real change in its essence. This long-lived accounting institution has continued to operate, with no material change in its nature, across different historical blocs, such as monarchy, fascism, post-war socio-democratic republic, neoliberal republic, and major changes in Italian politics and economy. This accounting institution has also faced a series of potentially significant sources of change, which appeared dramatic at first sight, but had no significant far-reaching historical impact, as hegemony was unaffected. In Italian society, the board of statutory auditors has provided a reassurance role, in principle this is to monitor company directors, a role which is perceived to benefit all society. However, in practice, this institution has provided a legitimating, rather than a substantive monitoring mechanism. It helped to exercise a hegemonic control for the ruling class, whose power was diffused across society through civil institutions during various historical blocs.

Keywords: accounting history, board of statutory auditors, hegemony, Italy

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Jones, Michael and Melis, Andrea, The Continuity of the Board of Statutory Auditors Across Social, Economic and Political Institutional Changes (April 16, 2020). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3577688
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
145 References
Bilancio d'esercizio, Brescia. Acts of the sixth national congress of accountants
Relazione del collegio dei sindaci , volume 2 Posted: 1910
Atti Parlamentari
Legislazione 27, Senato del Regno, Discussioni Posted: 1926-06-04
Crossref
Atti Parlamentari
Legislazione 29, Camera dei Fasci e delle Corporazioni Posted: 1936-12-16
Atti Parlamentari
Commissione Legislativa della Giustizia, Camera dei Fasci e delle Corporazioni Posted: 1939-05-26
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
861
RANK
791,953
145 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies