Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Mandatory Disclosure Dissemination on Information Asymmetry: Evidence from the Implementation of the EDGAR System

Posted: 11 May 2020 Last revised: 12 May 2020

Enrique Gomez

Temple University

Date Written: January 1, 2020

Abstract

I study the effect of the implementation of the SEC’s EDGAR system on two unique forms of information asymmetry: (1) asymmetry between managers and investors, and (2) asymmetry among different groups of investors. Information asymmetry theory suggests that firms’ adoption of the EDGAR system can have two effects — one that benefits investors and one that is detrimental to at least some investors. I find that the implementation of EDGAR lowered information asymmetry between managers and investors but had the unintended consequence of increasing information asymmetry (i.e., widening the information gap) between more- and less-sophisticated investors. I also validate Kim and Verrecchia’s (1997) measure of information asymmetry among investors. Taken together, my results suggest that while EDGAR was beneficial to investors, it also benefited some investors at the expense of others. Moreover, employing only traditional information asymmetry measures (e.g., bid-ask spreads) does not provide a complete picture of the consequences of disclosure.

Keywords: Information Asymmetry, Edgar, Investor Sophistication

JEL Classification: M41, M21, G00, G12, O33

Suggested Citation:

Gomez, Enrique, The Effect of Mandatory Disclosure Dissemination on Information Asymmetry: Evidence from the Implementation of the EDGAR System (January 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3577162
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,332
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies