Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Global Comparison of Corporate Value Adjustments to News of Cyber Attacks

https://www.virtusinterpress.org/IMG/pdf/jgrv9i2art2.pdf

11 Pages Posted: 12 May 2020 Last revised: 8 Jun 2020

Karen M. Hogan

St. Joseph's University

Date Written: April 17, 2020

Abstract

The growing threat of cyber breach as become one of the most feared risks corporations around the world are currently dealing with. The dynamic nature of cyber risk, along with evolving global regulations, necessitates that corporate management strategically address cyber risk to minimize effects on corporate value. This paper uses event study methodology to analyze global shareholder value effects of cyber breaches occurring between the periods 1990 to 2019. Cumulative Average Returns (CARs) are calculated by country, and in aggregate, from first notice date to periods of up to 90 days post announcement to compare short term and long term effects of cyber breaches on stock price. Similar to other smaller studies, results for this much larger data set show significant negative returns for US corporations in all sample windows. However, the changes in shareholder value are much smaller than were previously seen in other studies. Unlike its US counterparts, short term results for the five major non-US countries in this sample show no significant changes to price as a result of cyber breach announcements, even though the non-US firms also trade on US exchanges. Long term results for the aggregate non-US sample show significance only at the 0 to 30 day window. Long term results for some of the individual countries do support some various positive and negative event windows, but no common patterns are seen among countries. These results point to differences in how news of a cyber breach, by country, is perceived in the market. These results are interesting in that they also follow some of the patterns that insurance companies have seen in the reticent buying habits of global companies with respect to cyber insurance worldwide.

Keywords: cyber, breach, shareholder value, global, and returns

JEL Classification: F2, G1, G14, and G32

Suggested Citation:

Hogan, Karen M., A Global Comparison of Corporate Value Adjustments to News of Cyber Attacks (April 17, 2020). https://www.virtusinterpress.org/IMG/pdf/jgrv9i2art2.pdf, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3578625
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Allianz Risk Barometer: Identifying the major business risks for 2020
Allianz Global Corporate and Specialty Posted: 2020
E Amir , S Lev , T Livne
Do firms underreport information on cyber-attacks? Evidence from capital markets
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 1177 - 1206 Posted: 2018
Crossref
C Biener , M Eling , J H Wirfs
Insurability of cyber risk: An empirical analysis. The Geneva Papers on Risk and Insurance -Issues and Practice , volume 40 , p. 131 - 158 Posted: 2015
Crossref
S J Brown , J B Warner
Using daily stock returns (the case of event studies)
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 31 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
829
RANK
527,931
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies