Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary or Forced CEO Turnover? Asymmetric Information, Disclosure Strategies, and Market Reactions

NYU Stern School of Business

59 Pages Posted: 12 May 2020 Last revised: 21 Feb 2024

Kose John

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Y. Christine Liu

Bentley University

Xu Tian

University of Georgia - Terry College of Business - Department of Finance

Haofei Zhang

Ningbo University of Technology

Date Written: January 22, 2018

Abstract

Using a hand-collected sample of 1,419 CEO turnover announcements gathered from Factiva
News, we study the market reaction to these announcements in the context of information frictions.
We find that the market reaction to forced CEO turnovers tends to be negative, particularly
when the level of asymmetric information between corporate insiders and their investors is high.
In contrast, for voluntary CEO turnovers, the market reaction is negligible and does not correlate
with the level of asymmetric information. Furthermore, we observe that in scenarios of high
information asymmetry, companies often report forced turnovers as voluntary, eliciting a less
negative market response. Overall, our results suggest that firms strategically disclose information
about CEO turnover to avoid negative market reactions. The existing degree of asymmetric
information combined with strategic disclosure by firms produce the equilibrium announcement
effect of CEO turnovers.

Keywords: CEO turnover, information asymmetry, strategic disclosure, market reaction.

JEL Classification: G14; G30; G34

Suggested Citation:

John, Kose and Liu, Y. Christine and Tian, Xu and Zhang, Haofei, Voluntary or Forced CEO Turnover? Asymmetric Information, Disclosure Strategies, and Market Reactions (January 22, 2018). NYU Stern School of Business, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3578104 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3578104
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
J Adams , S Mansi
CEO turnover and bondholder wealth , volume 33 , p. 522 - 533 Posted: 2009
Emanuele Bajo
The information content of abnormal trading volume
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 37 , p. 950 - 978 Posted: 2010
Karthik Balakrishnan , Mary Brooke Billings , Bryan Kelly , Alexander Ljungqvist
Shaping liquidity: On the causal effects of voluntary disclosure
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , p. 2237 - 2278 Posted: 2014
G Ballinger , J Marcel
The use of an interim CEO during succession episodes and firm performance
Strategic Management Journal , volume 31 , p. 262 - 283 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
325
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,569
RANK
212,316
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies