Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect Of Audit Committee Attributes On Corporate Risk Disclosure. Of Firms Listed In Nairobi Security Exchange, Kenya

American Based Research Journal, Vol. 7 Issue 07, July 2018

11 Pages Posted: 14 May 2020

Stephen Kimutai Chelogoi

Moi University

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

the main purpose of the study paper was to determine the effect of audit committee characteristics on firm risk disclosure. Agency Theory informed the study. This study adopted a correlation research design. The target population for the study comprised of the 61 listed firms at Nairobi Securities Exchange(NSE) Census technique; was used in the study since it only captured all the 45 firms that had consistently been operating at the NSE for the past 8 years from 2005-2012 irrespective of their industry or market segment. This study utilized secondary data, and data were collected by use of content analysis. A document analysis guide was prepared to enable and guide the collection of data. Data collected was analyzed by use of descriptive statistics, for example, mean, and standard deviations were used, and inferential statistics which included Pearson correlation tested hypothesis and data were presented using tables. The results were likely to be of interest to investors because it provided a basis for evaluating a company’s risk and risk management strategies contained in the annual reports.

Keywords: Audit Committee Characteristics, Audit Committee, Quantity Of Risk Information Disclosed

Suggested Citation:

Chelogoi, Stephen Kimutai, Effect Of Audit Committee Attributes On Corporate Risk Disclosure. Of Firms Listed In Nairobi Security Exchange, Kenya (2018). American Based Research Journal, Vol. 7 Issue 07, July 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3580100
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
S Abraham , P Cox
Analyzing the determinants of narrative risk information in UK FTSE 100 annual reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 227 - 248 Posted: 2007
Crossref
C A Adams , W Hill , C B Roberts
Corporate social reporting practices in Western Europe: Legitimating corporate behavior?
British Accounting Review , volume 30 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 1998
Crossref
M Adams , M Hossain
Managerial discretion and voluntary disclosure: Evidence from the New Zealand life insurance industry
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 281 Posted: 1998
Crossref
K Ahmed , K Courtis
Associations between corporate characteristics and disclosure levels in annual reports: a meta-analysis
The British Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 61 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
460
RANK
841,369
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies