Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Market Consequences of Audit Office Size: Evidence from Stock Price Crash Risk

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 2020

Posted: 12 Jun 2020

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Xiaohua Fang

Florida Atlantic University

Baohua Xin

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Wenjun Zhang

Dalhousie University

Date Written: January 8, 2020

Abstract

This study examines the association between the office size of engagement auditors and their clients’ future stock price crash risk, a consequence of managerial bad news hoarding. Using a sample of U.S. public firms with Big 4 auditors, we find robust evidence that local audit office size is significantly and negatively related to future stock price crash risk. The evidence is consistent with the view that large audit offices effectively detect and deter bad news hoarding activities in comparison with their smaller counterparts. We further explore two possible explanations for these findings, the Auditor Incentive Channel and the Auditor Competency Channel. Our empirical tests offer support for both channels.

Keywords: crash risk, audit office, auditor incentives, auditor competency

JEL Classification: G12, G34, M49

Suggested Citation:

Callen, Jeffrey L. and Fang, Xiaohua and Xin, Baohua and Zhang, Wenjun, Capital Market Consequences of Audit Office Size: Evidence from Stock Price Crash Risk (January 8, 2020). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3580410
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,052
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies