Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gender Diversity, Corporate Governance and Financial Risk Disclosure in the UK

International Journal of Law and Management, February 2020

27 Pages Posted: 14 May 2020

Idris Bufarwa

University of Benghazi

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

Purpose – This study investigates the impact of corporate governance mechanisms on financial risk reporting in the UK.

Design/methodology/approach – The study uses a panel data of 50 non-financial firms belonging to ten industrial sectors listed on the London Stock Exchange in the period 2011-2015. Multivariate regression techniques are used to examine the relationships. Additionally, to alleviate the concern of potential endogeneity, we use two-stage least squares and fixed effect estimators.

Findings – The findings of this study reveal that corporate governance has a significant influence on financial risk disclosure. Specifically, we find that block ownership and board gender diversity have a positive effect on the level of corporate financial risk disclosure. While, there is no significant relationship between board size and corporate financial risk disclosure.

Originality/value – This study adds to the emerging body of literature on corporate governance–risk disclosure relationship in UK context using content analysis.

The study also highlights that gender diversity enhances financial risk disclosure.

Keywords: Financial Risk Disclosure, Block Ownership, Gender Diversity, Board Size, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G21, G32, G34, G38, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bufarwa, Idris and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Ntim, Collins G., Gender Diversity, Corporate Governance and Financial Risk Disclosure in the UK (2020). International Journal of Law and Management, February 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3580213 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3580213
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
J Abor , V Fiador
Does corporate governance explain dividend policy in SubSaharan Africa?
International Journal of Law and Management , volume 55 , issue 3 , p. 201 - 225 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S Abraham , P Cox
Analysing the Determinants of Narrative Risk Information in UK FTSE 100 Annual Reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 227 - 248 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Adhikariparajul , A Hassan , M Fletcher , A A Elamer
Integrated reporting in UK higher education institutions. Sustainability Accounting
Management and Policy Journal, Forthcoming Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,849
RANK
210,151
5 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies