Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Influence of Corporate Governance on Stock Liquidity for Firms Listed In the Nairobi Securities Exchange

American Based Research Journal, Vol. 7 Issue 10, October 2018

10 Pages Posted: 14 May 2020

Mercy Lustina Angweye

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Dr. Julius Miroga

Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology

Date Written: October 1, 2018

Abstract

The main purpose of the paper was to examine the influence of corporate governance on the stock liquidity of firms listed at the Nairobi Securities Exchange. Specifically, the influence of ownership structure on stock liquidity and the influence of audit committee structure on stock liquidity. The study was informed by Agency, Stewardship, and Resource Dependence Theories. This study used a combination of explanatory and longitudinal research design. The target population comprised 67 firms listed in Nairobi stock exchange Nairobi Securities Exchange. The data collection instruments used were structured questionnaire for primary data and content/document analysis guide, which were purposively administered to 67 company secretaries of firms listed at the NSE. Both descriptive and inferential statistics were used to analyze data. Inferential statistics are closely tied to the logic of hypothesis testing discussed. Multiple regressions were used to assess the association between corporate governance and stock liquidity. The results showed that ownership structure has a positive influence on stock liquidity (β1 = 0.368, ρ<0.05), audit committee structure had significant positive affect stock liquidity (β2 = 0.222, ρ <0.05) It is therefore recommended for regulators to improve the quality and enforcement of legal laws that protect minority shareholders from adverse actions of the controlling shareholders. Additionally, the audit committee needs to be aware of the interests of the investing public and be familiar with basic accounting principles. Finally, it is recommended that listed firms at NSE should disclose more information and have appropriate corporate disclosure policies and procedures.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Stock Liquidity

Suggested Citation:

Angweye, Mercy Lustina and Miroga, Dr. Julius, Influence of Corporate Governance on Stock Liquidity for Firms Listed In the Nairobi Securities Exchange (October 1, 2018). American Based Research Journal, Vol. 7 Issue 10, October 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3580120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
A Ajina , F Lakhal
Ownership Structure and Stock Market Liquidity in France
Bankers, Markets & Investors, no104 , p. 43 - 52 Posted: 2010
A Ajina , F Lakhal , D Sougne
Institutional investors, information asymmetry and stock market liquidity in France
International Journal of Managerial Finance , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 44 - 59 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Al-Thuneibat ; Amihud , Y Mendelson , H
Asset pricing and the bid-ask spread
A 2006, Audit in the light of the international auditing standards and iv , volume 17 , p. 90065 - 90071 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Y Amihud , H Mendelson , R A Wood
Liquidity and the 1987 stock market crash
Journal of Portfolio Management , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 65 - 69 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
447
RANK
864,457
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies