Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Common Ownership on Investment Decisions under Uncertainty

47 Pages Posted: 18 May 2020

In Gyun Baek

National University of Singapore

Sewon Kwon

Ewha Womans University-School of business

Dan Lynch

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: April 21, 2020

Abstract

This paper examines the effects of firm-level common ownership on the level and efficiency of investment when firms face uncertainty. There is a current debate about the costs and benefits of common ownership, whereby a firm owns large stakes in multiple companies in the same industry. Critics of common ownership argue that it reduces competition and leads to a deadweight loss for the economy through decreased investment. Proponents of common ownership suggest that it allows firms to increase investment due to a reduced threat of involuntary knowledge spillover to rivals. This study contributes to this debate by examining the effects of uncertainty on these relationships. We find that common ownership allows firms to enjoy the value of waiting in the presence of uncertainty resulting in decreased investment that is more efficient. In contrast, common ownership increases investment when uncertainty is low, but these investments are less efficient. These results indicate that common ownership provides benefits to firms in the face of high uncertainty, but also allows firms to engage in value-destroying activities when uncertainty is low. These findings are important to regulators as they debate regulations that could limit common ownership.

Keywords: Investment; Common Ownership; Competition; Uncertainty; Real Options

JEL Classification: G23; G32; K22

Suggested Citation:

Baek, In Gyun and Kwon, Sewon and Lynch, Dan, The Effect of Common Ownership on Investment Decisions under Uncertainty (April 21, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3581699 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3581699
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
320
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,763
RANK
215,929
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies