Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Board Independence and Foreign Ownership on Financial and Social Performance of Firms: Evidence from the UAE

Al-Gamrh, B., Al-dhamari, R., Jalan, A. and Jahanshahi, A. A. (2020), 'The impact of board independence and foreign ownership on financial and social performance of firms: Evidence from the UAE', Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Vol. DOI: 0.1108/JAAR-09-2018-01 (Forthcoming)

43 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2020

Bakr Al-Gamrh

ESC Rennes School of Business

Redhwan Al-dhamari

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Akanksha Jalan

ESC Rennes School of Business

Asghar Afshar Jahanshahi

Pontificia Universidad Católica de Perú

Date Written: April 21, 2020

Abstract

Purpose - This study examines the impact of two different types of foreign ownership – by Arab and non-Arab investors on firms’ financial and social performance. It then goes on to investigate how the degree of board independence affects the aforementioned relationship between these two types of foreign investors on firm performance.

Design - The sample for the study is a panel of all listed firms in the Dubai Financial Market and the Abu Dhabi Stock exchange from 2008 to 2012.

Findings - Results indicate that while Arab foreign ownership affects firms’ financial and social performance negatively, non-Arab foreign ownership does so, positively. Further tests indicate that board independence weakens the negative relationship between firm financial and social performance with foreign Arab ownership and deteriorate the relationship between firm financial and social performance and non-Arab foreign ownership.

Research limitations – Future studies may extend the coverage of the study by including other countries in the region and other identities of the foreign investors.

Practical implications – This study may help policy makers in the UAE to improve the implementation and enforcement of existing regulations concerning CSR and board independence. It also highlights the need to look into the monitoring role of independent board members.

Originality/value – This is the first study to examine the role of board independence on the relationship between foreign ownership and firm’s financial and social performance. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first paper that attempts to enrich the understanding of foreign ownership by classifying it into Arab versus non-Arab.


Suggested Citation:

Al-Gamrh, Bakr and Al-dhamari, Redhwan and Jalan, Akanksha and Afshar Jahanshahi, Asghar, The Impact of Board Independence and Foreign Ownership on Financial and Social Performance of Firms: Evidence from the UAE (April 21, 2020). Al-Gamrh, B., Al-dhamari, R., Jalan, A. and Jahanshahi, A. A. (2020), 'The impact of board independence and foreign ownership on financial and social performance of firms: Evidence from the UAE', Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Vol. DOI: 0.1108/JAAR-09-2018-01 (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3582201
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
R Abdelal
Sovereign wealth in Abu Dhabi
Geopolitics , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 317 - 327 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of economic literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
I Akimova , G Schwödiauer
Ownership structure, corporate governance, and enterprise performance: Empirical results for ukraine
International Advances in Economic Research , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 28 - 42 Posted: 2004
Crossref
B Al-Gamrh , K N I Ku Ismail , R Al-Dhamari
The role of corporate governance strength in crisis and non-crisis times
Applied Economics , volume 50 , issue 58 , p. 6263 - 6284 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,271
RANK
333,065
4 Citations
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies