Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management In Developed And Developing Countries: A Review Of Recent Literature

American Based Research Journal, Vol. 8 Issue 01, January 2019

13 Pages Posted: 19 May 2020

Elhusin Blkasem Elhaj

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Noorhayati Mansor

University Sultan Zainal Abidin - Faculty of Economics & Management Sciences

Date Written: January 1, 2019

Abstract

Over the years, opportunistic earnings management practice generates reliable accounting earnings in a smaller amount which could not produce the fair and true firms’ financial performance. Earnings management is most probably to decrease the quality in usefulness for investment decision and reported earnings, therefore, decreasing the confidence of investor on the financial reports. Though, accounting earnings have been more consistent with high quality while the manager’s opportunistic behavior is changed by applying monitoring system. Therefore, regulatory bodies of the stock market and other agencies are more concerned with the earnings management, particularly, after collapsing of current numerous firms to which were reported increasing the independence of external auditors and corporate governance. Its main objective is not only to directly expand corporate performance but also to resolve agency problems by making parallel management and shareholders’ interests. Earnings management, as for as the literature concerned is very rich and resolve the problems of earnings management such as type of earnings management, corporate governance practices and also numerous elements disturbing earning management. Past studies have also been recognized the constraints on earnings management and the impact of incentives which could be divided into two groups. The first group examines corporate governance, ownership structure and audit quality as constraints while the second group studies leverage and free cash flow as incentives. This study discusses the literature of earnings management and also discusses the suitable gap from the literature of earnings management in both developed and developing countries. The contribution of this study is to highlight the complication in issues of earnings management in reporting of financial corporate and gives a way for further study on decreasing earnings management practices.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Corporate Governance, Incentives and Constraints, Agency Theory

Suggested Citation:

Elhaj, Elhusin Blkasem and Mansor, Noorhayati, Earnings Management In Developed And Developing Countries: A Review Of Recent Literature (January 1, 2019). American Based Research Journal, Vol. 8 Issue 01, January 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3582595
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
567
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,596
RANK
110,945
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies