Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility Strategies in Nigeria: A Tinged Shareholder Model

26 Pages Posted: 19 May 2020

Emmanuel Adegbite

University of Nottingham

Date Written: April 22, 2020

Abstract

Purpose: This paper examines two important issues in CSR scholarship. First, the study problematizes corporate social responsibility (CSR) as a form of self-regulation. Second, the research explores how CSR strategies can enable firms to recognise and internalise their externalities while preserving shareholder value.

Design/Methodology: This study employs a tinged shareholder model to understand the interactions between an organisation’s CSR approach and the effect of relevant externalities on its CSR outcomes. In doing this, we adopt the case study qualitative methodology, relying on data from one Fidelity Bank, Nigeria.

Findings: By articulating a tripodal thematic model – governance of externalities in the economy, governance of externalities in the social system and governance of externalities in the environment, this paper demonstrates how an effective combination of these themes triggers the emergence of a robust CSR culture in an organisation.

Research Implications: This research advances our understanding of the implication of internalising externalities in the CSR literature in a relatively under-researched context – Nigeria.

Originality: Our data allows us to present a governance model that will enable managers to focus on their overarching objective of shareholder value without the challenges of pursuing multiple and sometimes conflicting goals that typically create negative impacts to non-shareholding stakeholders.

Keywords: Shareholder primacy; Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR); Corporate externalities; Nigeria; Tinged shareholder theory

Suggested Citation:

Adegbite, Emmanuel, Corporate Social Responsibility Strategies in Nigeria: A Tinged Shareholder Model (April 22, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3582623 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3582623
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,012
RANK
596,846
122 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies