Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study of CEO Power, Firm Size, and Firm Performance

Posted: 20 May 2020

Sihui Wang

Independent

Date Written: April 23, 2020

Abstract

Agency Problems are caused by interest conflicts between CEO and shareholders, and CEO power worsens the agent-principal relationship and affects firm performance. This study extends the existing research on CEO power and firm performance by including firm size as an important factor that affects the impact of CEO power on firm performance. We examine the relationship between firm size and firm performance, the relationship between CEO power and firm performance, whether firm size matters when we examine the effect of CEO power on firm performance. The results indicate there is a strong positive relationship between firm size and firm performance. We cannot conclude the exact relationship between CEO power and firm performance because the impact of CEO power on firm performance varies by using different CEO power and firm performance measurements. Also, we find the relationship between CEO power and firm size is different significantly between small and large firms.

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Sihui, A Study of CEO Power, Firm Size, and Firm Performance (April 23, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3583600
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
552
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies