Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value in the Professional Valuation: Concepts and Models

Artemenkov A.I.(2018) "Fair Value in the professional Valuation: concepts and models" , Int. J. Critical Accounting, Vol. 10, No.6, (2018), pp. 427-446

20 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2020

Andrey I. Artemenkov

Westminster International University in Tashkent (WIUT); Ariel University

Date Written: November 22, 2018

Abstract

The paper addresses value measurement bases used in professional valuation. We, specifically, consider semantic and methodological features of equitable/fair value as a sui generis basis of Professional valuation. As used in the field of professional valuation, equitable/fair value is the logically necessary basis for estimating values-in-exchange for illiquid assets traded on the markets where the operations of “the law of one price” are very weak. Its logical relevance is demonstrated with the aid of a proposed tool based on Venn-diagrammatic approach (VDA). Then we analyse equitable/fair value estimating techniques resulting from V. Galasyuk’s and the transactional asset pricing approaches (TAPA). The contribution of the paper is in analysing the main aspects of existing equitable/fair value estimation theories in terms of where they fall in the normativist/positivist continuum of economic analysis. It is hoped this paper will help provide a new perspective enriching wider debates on fair value in the accounting measurements world.

Keywords: accounting measurements; equitable (fair) value; Venn-diagrammatic approach to valuation-bases; the international valuation standards; IVS; the European valuation standards; professional valuation; transactional asset pricing approach; TAPA; Galasyuk fair value theory.

JEL Classification: D46,G12

Suggested Citation:

Artemenkov, Andrey I., Fair Value in the Professional Valuation: Concepts and Models (November 22, 2018). Artemenkov A.I.(2018) "Fair Value in the professional Valuation: concepts and models" , Int. J. Critical Accounting, Vol. 10, No.6, (2018), pp. 427-446 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3583631
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
D Andrews
Actuarial Methods for Valuing Illiquid assets, SOA Joint Risk Management Section Publication, Society of Actuaries Posted: 2011-12
P M Anglin , Y Gao
Integrating illiquid assets into the portfolio decision process
Real Estate Economics , volume 39 , p. 277 - 311 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Andrey I. Artemenkov
Concepts of Value, Price and Valuation in Antiquity and Medieval World: A Note for Professional Valuers
Pages: 18 Posted: 14 Dec 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A I Artemenkov , G I Mikerin , I L Artemenkov
Professional valuation and investment-financial valuation: distinctions in valuations for private and public markets
The Appraisal Journal , volume 76 , issue 4 Posted: 2008-12
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
822
RANK
649,230
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies