Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
THE IDIOSYNCRASIES OF THE EUROPEAN MARKET OF CORPORATE CONTROL

39 Pages Posted: 20 May 2020 Last revised: 8 Oct 2020

Hector Fabio Perafan-Peña

Universidad ICESI

Belen Gill-de-Albornoz

Jaume I University - Department of Finance and Accounting

Begoña Giner

University of Valencia

Date Written: October 5, 2020

Abstract

This paper provides a comprehensive descriptive analysis of the European market of mergers and acquisitions (M&A) between 1990 and 2017. We examine several features of the deal announcements in the region like: 1) completion; 2) method of payment; 3) geographical scope; 4) target’s attitude; 5) bidders’ competition; 6) industry relatedness; 7) public status of the firms involved; and 8) acquirers’ ownership of targets before and after the transaction. Additionally, we identify the similarities and differences of this market with those of the dominant market worldwide, namely the US. Both markets show similar trends in their activity and the occurrence of waves concentrated around economic shocks. However, the European market notably exhibits higher levels of friendly and cash deals.

Keywords: Mergers and acquistions, Europe, Acquisitions, Restructuring, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Perafan-Peña, Hector Fabio and Gill de Albornoz Noguer, Belen and Giner Inchausti, Begoña, THE IDIOSYNCRASIES OF THE EUROPEAN MARKET OF CORPORATE CONTROL (October 5, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3583700 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3583700
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
999
RANK
521,283
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies