Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Litigation Risk and Debt Contracting: Evidence from a Natural Experiment

Journal of Law and Economics, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 20 May 2020

Zhihong Chen

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology

Ningzhong Li

University of Texas at Dallas

Jianghua Shen

Xiamen University

Date Written: February 19, 2020

Abstract

In June 2001, Nevada changed its state corporate law by substantially reducing the legal liability of directors and officers for breaching fiduciary duties owed to the corporation. We examine the impact of the reduced litigation risk caused by this legislative change on Nevada-incorporated firms’ loan contract terms and related borrower-lender agency conflicts. Using a difference-in-differences analysis, we find that this legislative change leads to less favorable loan contract terms for Nevada-incorporated firms: higher spread and more restrictive covenants. In addition, after the legislative change, Nevada-incorporated firms with severe borrower-lender agency conflicts take more risk, increase payout through stock repurchase, and reduce capital investment and equity issuance. Collectively, these results suggest that the reduced litigation risk exacerbates the borrower-lender agency conflicts.

Keywords: Litigation risk, loan contracts, agency conflicts, Nevada corporate law

JEL Classification: G30, K41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Zhihong and Li, Ningzhong and Shen, Jianghua, Litigation Risk and Debt Contracting: Evidence from a Natural Experiment (February 19, 2020). Journal of Law and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3583834
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Tim Loughran , Bill Mcdonald
When Is a Liability Not a Liability? Textual Analysis, Dictionaries, and 10-Ks
Journal of Finance , volume 66 , p. 35 - 65 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Tim Loughran , Bill Mcdonald , Hayong Yun
A Wolf in Sheep's Clothing: The Use of Ethics-Related Terms in 10-K Reports
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 89 , p. 39 - 49 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Sattar A Mansi , F William , John K Maxwell , Wald
Creditor Protection Laws and the Cost of Debt
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 52 , p. 701 - 717 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Justin Murfin
The Supply-Side Determinants of Loan Contract Strictness
Journal of Finance , volume 67 , p. 1565 - 1601 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
314
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,793
RANK
220,473
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies