Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Influence of Firm Financial Characteristics on Leverage of Agricultural Listed Companies in Nairobi Securities Exchanges

American Based Research Journal, Vol. 8 Issue 05, May 2019

8 Pages Posted: 21 May 2020

Wairimu Helen

University of Nairobi

Prof Willy Muturi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ken Oluoch

Moi University - Department of History, Political Science, and Public Administration

Date Written: May 1, 2019

Abstract

In financial management, an organization is always concerned about four major issues which are sources of finance, use of finance, investment decisions, and working capital management. Financial decisions have an influence on the ability of a corporation to remain a going concern since the wrong mix of debt and equity has short term and long-term implications. It is against this the current study examined the influence of firm financial characteristics on the leverage of agricultural companies. Panel regression modelling revealed the positive influence of firm size and negative influence of tangibility, profitability and growth opportunities on the leverage of agricultural listed companies. Operating cash flows moderated the influence of firm financial characteristics on the leverage of agricultural listed companies.

Keywords: Financial characteristics, Firm size, Profitability, Tangibility, Growth opportunities

Suggested Citation:

Helen, Wairimu and Muturi, Prof Willy and Oluoch, Ken, Influence of Firm Financial Characteristics on Leverage of Agricultural Listed Companies in Nairobi Securities Exchanges (May 1, 2019). American Based Research Journal, Vol. 8 Issue 05, May 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3584431
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
S Acaravci
The Determinants of Capital Structure: Evidence from the Turkish Manufacturing Sector
International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 158 - 171 Posted: 2015
P Acheampong , E Agalega , K Shibu
The Effect of Financial Leverage and Market Size on Stock Returns on the Ghana Stock Exchange: Evidence from Selected Stocks in the Manufacturing Sector
International Journal of Financial Research , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 125 - 134 Posted: 2014
Crossref
A Addae , M Nyarko-Baasi , D Hughes
The Effects of Capital Structure on Profitability of Listed Firms in Ghana
European Journal of Business and Management , volume 5 , issue 31 , p. 215 - 229 Posted: 2013
S Alghusin
The Impact of Financial Leverage, Growth, and Size on Profitability of Jordanian Industrial Listed Companies
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 6 , issue 16 , p. 86 - 92 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
455
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies