Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Competition and Tax Avoidance

57 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2020 Last revised: 2 Mar 2021

Nader Atawnah

Edith Cowan University - School of Business & Law

Balasingham Balachandran

Monash University - Monash University Malaysia; Financial Research Network (FIRN); La Trobe University - School of Economics and Finance

Huu Nhan Duong

Monash University - Department of Banking and Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Edward Podolski

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University) - School of Economics, Finance and Marketing; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: April 24, 2020

Abstract

We investigate the link between foreign competition and corporate tax planning. We find that a one standard deviation increase in import competition leads to a reduction of 9% in firms’ effective tax rates relative to standard levels. Further, we document that our evidence is robust to a battery of sensitivity tests and endogeneity concerns. Cross-sectional analysis shows that the association between foreign competition and tax planning is most pronounced among firms that: (i) are financially constrained; (ii) have the greatest ability to implement tax avoidance policies; (iii) have strong alignment of incentives between managers and shareholders; (iv) appoint high-quality auditors; and (v) attract more analyst coverage. Additional tests reveal that tax planning in the presence of foreign competitive threats enhances firm performance and investments, and improves managers’ career outcomes. Overall, we provide the first large-scale evidence that changes in the macroeconomic external environment are an important determinant of corporate tax planning activities.

Keywords: Foreign Competition; Tax Avoidance

JEL Classification: M40; M41; M48

Suggested Citation:

Atawnah, Nader and Balachandran, Balasingham and Duong, Huu Nhan and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Podolski, Edward, Foreign Competition and Tax Avoidance (April 24, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3584780 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3584780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
112 References
R Aggarwal , D Mishra , C Wilson
Are prophets myopic? Analyst recommendations and the implied cost of equity Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Allen , B Francis , Q Wu , Y Zhao
Analyst coverage and corporate tax aggressiveness
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 73 , p. 84 - 98 Posted: 2016
Crossref
C S Armstrong , R Vashishtha
Executive stock options, differential risk-taking incentives, and firm value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 104 , issue 1 , p. 70 - 88 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
463
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,361
RANK
142,252
2 Citations
112 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies