Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relevance of Keiretsu Affiliation on Disclosure Quality in Contemporary Japanese Economy

Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting & Economics, 2020

DOI: 10.1080/16081625.2020.1726191

Posted: 21 May 2020

Frendy

Nagoya University of Commerce and Business

Date Written: February 11, 2020

Abstract

Corporate governance reforms were introduced in Japan in the 2000s to improve investor protection and disclosure quality. Given the importance of keiretsu-affiliated firms in the Japanese economy, our study investigates the association between keiretsu affiliation and disclosure quality. We find no systematic difference in disclosure quality between listed Japanese keiretsu and non-keiretsu-affiliated firms. Instead, we find that disclosure quality is positively associated with firm size, profitability, directors’ share ownership, overseas sales, and access to international capital. Moreover, no gap in disclosure quality between old keiretsu firms with zaibatsu heritage and post-war emerging keiretsu firms is observed.

Keywords: Keiretsu, Japan, Disclosure Quality, Corporate Governance, Matching Analysis

Suggested Citation:

, Frendy, The Relevance of Keiretsu Affiliation on Disclosure Quality in Contemporary Japanese Economy (February 11, 2020). Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting & Economics, 2020 , DOI: 10.1080/16081625.2020.1726191, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3584194
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
543
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies