Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing Earnings Through M&A

21 Pages Posted: 20 May 2020

Geoff Meeks

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Jaqueline Meeks

University of Cambridge - Centre for Development Studies

Date Written: April 24, 2020

Abstract

This paper discusses the use of M&A to facilitate earnings management. The accounting procedures we analyse variously create earnings which would not be reported in the absence of M&A; or reduce reported earnings; or shift earnings between accounting periods. The motivation for deploying the procedures can include changing stakeholders’ perceptions of business performance and/or securing more favourable outcomes from contracts linked to earnings. Our main examples of creating or rescheduling earnings focus on three aspects of reporting the M&A transaction: the fair value adjustment, the reorganization provision, and the recognition of intangible assets. We also discuss briefly earnings management opportunities arising in relation to M&A transaction costs, latent losses, and impairment charges. We outline the opportunities to transform earnings, give actual examples, and identify ways in which such accounting might distort economic decisions.

Keywords: M&A, Earnings Management, Creative Accounting, Efficiency, Contracting

JEL Classification: D82, G00, G14, G32, G34, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Meeks, Geoff and Meeks, Jaqueline, Managing Earnings Through M&A (April 24, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3584156 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3584156
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Accounting Association Committee on Accounting and Auditing Measurement, 1989-90. Accounting Horizons
AAA , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 81 - 105 Posted: 1991
A Amel-Zadeh , J Faasse , K Li , G Meeks
Stewardship and value-relevance in accounytig for the depletion of purchased goodwill
Accounting for M&A: Uses and Abuses of Accounting in Monitoring and Promoting Merger Posted: 2020
Crossref
A Amel-Zadeh , G Meeks , J G Meeks
Accounting for M&A: Uses and Abuses of Accounting in Monitoring and Promoting Merger Posted: 2020
ASB (1998) Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets, FRS12. London: Accounting Standards Board
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
576
RANK
778,745
1 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies