Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Audit Committee Characteristics on the Earnings Quality

American Based Research Journal, Vol. 8 Issue 02, February 2019

8 Pages Posted: 29 May 2020

Suleman Ali Eyal Awwad

University Sultan Zainal Abidin

Nik Mohd Norfadzilah Nik Mohd Rashid

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 01, 2019

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to explore the characteristics of the Audit Committee (AC) (namely: audit committee independence, and number of meetings) in the public companies listed on the Amman Stock Exchange (ASE), and then look at their impact on the quality of earnings expressed in the continuity of earnings in the future. So, in the past years, the role of the Audit Committees as an institutional governance mechanism has increased, which aims to protect the interests of the shareholders and preserve the rights of companies, after the failures financial and administrative of many foreign and local companies.



Keywords: Independence, Meetings, Financial Leverage, Quality of Earnings, Amman Stock Exchange

Suggested Citation:

Awwad, Suleman Ali Eyal and Rashid, Nik Mohd Norfadzilah Nik Mohd, Impact of Audit Committee Characteristics on the Earnings Quality (February 01, 2019). American Based Research Journal, Vol. 8 Issue 02, February 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3584143
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
C M Judd , D A Kenny
Process analysis: Estimating mediation in treatment evaluations
Evaluation review , volume 5 , issue 5 , p. 602 - 619 Posted: 1981
B S Kallamu , N A M Saat
Audit committee attributes and firm performance: Evidence from Malaysian finance companies
Asian review of Accounting , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 206 - 231 Posted: 2015
Crossref
H Khlif , K Samaha
Audit committee activity and internal control quality in Egypt: Does external auditor's size matter?
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 269 - 289 Posted: 2016
M U Kibiya , A Che-Ahmad , N A Amran
Audit committee independence, financial expertise, share ownership and financial reporting quality: further evidence from Nigeria
International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues , volume 6 , issue 7S , p. 125 - 131 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
668
RANK
708,207
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies