Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Power Behind the Pen: Institutional Investors’ Influence on Media during Corporate Litigation

80 Pages Posted: 21 May 2020 Last revised: 22 Jul 2025

Jie He

University of Georgia - Department of Finance

Han Xia

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

Yabo Zhao

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Luo Zuo

National University of Singapore; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

Date Written: July 22, 2025

Abstract

Institutional investors increasingly hold substantial equity stakes in both media companies and industrial firms. When industrial firms become defendants in corporate litigation, media companies that are simultaneously held by these institutional investors provide more lenient coverage of the defendants. This effect becomes more pronounced when institutions have greater incentive and ability to exert influence over the media companies. Influenced media outlets also reduce their coverage of the defendants, especially that related to legal matters. After the lenient coverage, institutional investors increasingly vote in favor of the management of these media companies. Our findings indicate that media outlets slant their coverage of corporate litigation to cater to institutional investors.

Keywords: Institutional investors, media incentives, media tone, corporate litigation, cross-holdings

JEL Classification: G14, G23, G32, L82, M41

Suggested Citation:

He, Jie and Xia, Han and Zhao, Yabo and Zuo, Luo, The Power Behind the Pen: Institutional Investors’ Influence on Media during Corporate Litigation (July 22, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3584740 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3584740
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
824
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,034
RANK
68,309
2 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies