Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Talk about the Coronavirus Pandemic: Initial Evidence from Corporate Disclosures

51 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2020

Victor Xiaoqi Wang

California State University, Long Beach - College of Business Administration

Betty (Bin) Xing

Baylor University - Hankamer School of Business

Date Written: April 26, 2020

Abstract

The novel Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) has become the world’s center of attention in 2020. In this paper, we examine firm disclosures of COVID-19 during the first quarter of 2020, a time when firms face tremendous uncertainty and have little guidance on what and how to disclose. We compare Coronavirus-related disclosures in SEC filings and earnings conference calls with the timeline of the spread of the disease and with information gathering and disseminating activities in Google searches and news articles. We find that initial corporate disclosures are driven by information demand, and firm managers are proactive in providing information to investors. Our topic modelling analysis shows that although firms recognize the massive impact of the pandemic on their operations, their disclosures in SEC filings are general and lack specifics. Finally, we find that analysts are proactive in raising questions regarding the impact of COVID-19 during the Q&A session of the conference calls, and that firm managers are quick to provide necessary disclosures in the presentation session as the pandemic develops.

Keywords: Coronavirus, COVID-19, Pandemics, Corporate disclosures, Earnings conference calls, SEC filings, Google Trends, News articles, Sentiment analysis, Textual analysis, Topic modelling

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Victor Xiaoqi and Xing, Betty (Bin), Talk about the Coronavirus Pandemic: Initial Evidence from Corporate Disclosures (April 26, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3585951 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3585951
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Kristian D Allee , Matthew D Deangelis
The Structure of Voluntary Disclosure Narratives: Evidence from Tone Dispersion
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 274 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Brian J Bushee , A Dawn , Gregory S Matsumoto , Miller
Open versus closed conference calls: the determinants and effects of broadening access to disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 76 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Hyunyoung Choi , H A L Varian
Predicting the Present with Google Trends
Economic Record , volume 88 , issue s1 , p. 2 - 9 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Z H I Da , Joseph Engelberg , Pengjie Gao
Search of Attention , volume 66 , p. 1461 - 1499 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
612
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,187
RANK
100,600
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies