Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Board Size and Board Composition Impact on Financial Performance: An Evidence from the Pakistani and Chinese Listed Banking Sector

MAJEED, M. K., JUN, J. C., Muhammad, Z. U. R., MOHSIN, M., & RAFIQ, M. Z. (2020). The Board Size and Board Composition Impact on Financial Performance: An Evidence from the Pakistani and Chinese’s Listed Banking Sector. The Journal of Asian Finance, Economics and Business (JAFEB), 7(4), 81-95.

15 Pages Posted: 20 May 2020

Dr. Muhammad Zia ur Rehman

National Textile University, Faisalabad; International Islamic University, Islamabad

Date Written: February 24, 2020

Abstract

The main objective of this research is to investigate the impact of board size and board composition on financial performance of banks. The sample of this study consists on two countries listed bank sector Pakistan and China. The annul data is used from 2009-2018 to find the objective of this study. The Panel regression model is used to check the relationship between dependent and independent variables. Return on Asset and Return on Equity is used as performance checker dependent variables. The results of this study confirm board size coefficient value positive for ROA and negative for ROE but shows insignificant behavior for Pakistani banking sector while in Chinese banking sector the coefficient value of board size positively for ROA and ROE at 10% level. The board composition coefficient shows the negatively significant with ROA but insignificantly related to ROE for Pakistani banking sector. However, in Chinese banking sector the coefficient value of board composition is insignificant for both ROA and ROE. This study is helpful for banks, management of banks, policy makers, researcher as well as Government.

Keywords: Board Structure, Board Size, Commercial Banks, External Directors, Financial Performance

JEL Classification: F36, G21, G03, M21

Suggested Citation:

Zia ur Rehman, Muhammad, The Board Size and Board Composition Impact on Financial Performance: An Evidence from the Pakistani and Chinese Listed Banking Sector (February 24, 2020). MAJEED, M. K., JUN, J. C., Muhammad, Z. U. R., MOHSIN, M., & RAFIQ, M. Z. (2020). The Board Size and Board Composition Impact on Financial Performance: An Evidence from the Pakistani and Chinese’s Listed Banking Sector. The Journal of Asian Finance, Economics and Business (JAFEB), 7(4), 81-95., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3585425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
676
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,826
RANK
88,471
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies