Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Stakeholder E-Engagement on the Relation between Board Independence and Environmental Disclosure. Toward a Cohesive Corporate Governance. Evidence from Italian Listed Companies

5 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2020

Luigi Lepore

Parthenope University - Department of Law

Date Written: April 26, 2020

Abstract

Companies worldwide increasingly engaged in corporate social responsibility disclosure, particularly corporate environmental disclosure (CED) has gained increasing importance since the 1980s. Reporting environmental performance has become a fundamental corporate governance mechanism to improve relationship with stakeholders, enhancing companies’ image, consensus, trust and social legitimacy, particularly in a period of great change like this, where people are demonstrating a very high attention to environmental issues, due to different phenomena, like the pandemic emergency of COVID-19, the sustainable capitalism, etc.. The importance of CED has been enormously amplified in the last decades since the development of the Internet and social media (SM) as universal interaction tools useful for stakeholder engagement. Through SM stakeholder can easily ask for information, express and share requests, organize and coordinate interventions. Indeed, SM have become an important source of institutional pressure for firms and board of directors. They acts as a resonance chamber for stakeholder opinions, in which institutional pressure grows and is continuously transmitted from society to firm, influencing the firm legitimacy and the directors’ reputation. The aim of this paper is to investigate the relationship between board independence and CED, deepening the moderating role of stakeholder e-engagement through Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter. The effectiveness of the board of directors as a monitoring mechanism is crucial to corporate transparency, especially in an institutional environment where other corporate governance mechanisms fail to guarantee stakeholder rights. We analyse a sample of 218 firm-year observations related to Italian non-financial listed companies for the period 2017-2018 and found that board independence and stakeholder e-engagement positively influence CED, whereas institutional pressure due to stakeholder e-engagement through SM play an important role on independent directors’ preferences and imply that external directors better consider the interest of external stakeholders, stimulating the company’s environmental disclosure.

Keywords: board independence, social media, stakeholder e-engagement, corporate social responsibility, environmental disclosure, sustainable capitalism

JEL Classification: M14 M41 G34 O16 O35 Q01 Q56

Suggested Citation:

Lepore, Luigi, The Role of Stakeholder E-Engagement on the Relation between Board Independence and Environmental Disclosure. Toward a Cohesive Corporate Governance. Evidence from Italian Listed Companies (April 26, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3585588 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3585588
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
911
RANK
592,557
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies