Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dark side of Independent Boards, the Case of Corporate Social Responsibility

39 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2020 Last revised: 21 Nov 2022

Fangzhou Lu

The University of Hong Kong - Department of Finance; Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Yingyan Shi

HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Date Written: April 27, 2020

Abstract

Independent boards have been documented to have a positive effect on corporate governance, however, I show that independent boards improve shareholder value at the cost of sacrificing corporate social responsibility (CSR). Specifically, I find that stakeholders such as employees and consumers' interest have been compromised as a result of board myopia. This result is even stronger among firms in industries with intense product market competition, and among firms with more analysts followed. My result also suggests that negative corporate social behavior may not be fully priced by investors.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility

JEL Classification: G23

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Fangzhou and Shi, Yingyan, The Dark side of Independent Boards, the Case of Corporate Social Responsibility (April 27, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3586155 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3586155
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Alberto Abadie , Guido W Imbens
Large sample properties of matching estimators for average treatment effects
Econometrica , volume 74 , issue 1 , p. 235 - 267 Posted: 2006
Yakov Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Anders Anderson , David T Robinson
Financial Literacy in the Age of Green Investment
Review of Finance, Forthcoming Posted: 2021
Benjamin Balsmeier , Lee Fleming , Gustavo Manso
Independent boards and innovation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 123 , issue 3 , p. 536 - 557 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,308
RANK
344,140
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies