Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Battling Uncertainty: Corporate Disclosures of COVID-19 in Earnings Conference Calls and Annual Reports

73 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2020 Last revised: 1 May 2020

Victor Xiaoqi Wang

California State University, Long Beach - College of Business Administration

Betty (Bin) Xing

Baylor University - Hankamer School of Business

Date Written: April 28, 2020

Abstract

This study examines the informativeness of firm disclosures related to COVID-19 in earnings conference calls and annual reports (10-K) during the first quarter of 2020 when firms face tremendous uncertainty and little regulatory guidance. We find that investors react to COVID-19 related discussions made during the presentation of the conference calls but not to those during the Q&A session. We further find that managers’ tone does not provide information incremental to the COVID-19 discussions. This finding suggests that investors fixate their attention on the overwhelming event and ignore the sentiment signals from firm managers. In our determinants model, we find that the extent of COVID-19 related discussions largely depends on industry membership and time effects, and does not depend on performance and firm characteristics. In our analysis using 10-Ks, we find that COVID-19 related disclosures are associated with short-term abnormal returns, suggesting that these disclosures are informative to the equity market. More interestingly, we find that risk disclosures in the Risk Factor Disclosure (RFD) section in the 10-K do not trigger any short-term market reactions after we exclude the COVID-19 related disclosures, again suggesting that disclosures about the overwhelming event COVID-19 crowd out investors’ attention on other risk information. Finally, we find a negative market reaction to firms that apply for the SEC’s extension on filing deadlines, even though the relief was specifically granted for COVID-19, suggesting that the market generally interprets late filings as negative events, even in scenarios outside of the firms’ control.

Keywords: Coronavirus, COVID-19, Corporate disclosures, SEC’s filing relief, Risk disclosures, Earnings conference calls, 10-K filings, Market reactions, Event studies, Sentiment analysis, Textual analysis

JEL Classification: M41, G14, G18

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Victor Xiaoqi and Xing, Betty (Bin), Battling Uncertainty: Corporate Disclosures of COVID-19 in Earnings Conference Calls and Annual Reports (April 28, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3586085 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3586085
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,698
RANK
43,286
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies