Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Growing through Spinoffs. Corporate Governance, Entry, and Innovation

44 Pages Posted: 27 May 2020

Maurizio Iacopetta

OFCE (Centre de recherche en Economie de Sciences Po); SKEMA Business School - Sophia Antipolis Campus

Raoul Minetti

Michigan State University

Pierluigi Murro

Luiss Guido Carli University - Department of Business and Management

Date Written: April 29, 2020

Abstract

New firms are often based on ideas that the founders developed while working for incumbent firms. We study the macroeconomic effects of spinoffs through a growth model of product variety expansion, driven by firm entry, and product innovation. Spinoffs stem from conflicts of interest between incumbent firms' shareholders and employees. The analysis suggests that incumbents invest more in product innovation when knowledge protection is stronger. An inverted-U shape relationship emerges, however, between the intensity of spinoff activities and the strength of the rule of law. A calibration experiment indicates that, with a good rule of law, loosening knowledge protection by 5% reduces product innovation by one fifth in the short run and one seventh in the long run, but boosts the spinoff rate by one tenth and one sixth in the short and long run, respectively. Nevertheless, per capita income growth drops and welfare deteriorates. The trade-offs are broadly consistent with evidence from Italian firms.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Endogenous Growth, Spinoffs

JEL Classification: E44, O40, G30

Suggested Citation:

Iacopetta, Maurizio and Minetti, Raoul and Murro, Pierluigi, Growing through Spinoffs. Corporate Governance, Entry, and Innovation (April 29, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3588255 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3588255
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
P Aghion , P Howitt
Endogenous Growth Theory Posted: 1998
P Aghion , P Howitt , D Mayer-Foulkes
The e¤ect of …nancial development on convergence: Theory and evidence
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 Posted: 2005
Crossref
U Akcigit , H Alp , M Peters
Lack of selection and imperfect managerial contracts: Firms dynamics in developing countries Posted: 2019
M Andersson , S Klepper
Characteristics and performance of new …rms and spino¤s in Sweden
Industrial and Corporate Change , volume 22 , issue 1 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
844
RANK
631,426
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies