Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Firms Foresee the Proprietary Cost of Mandatory Public Disclosure?

60 Pages Posted: 28 May 2020 Last revised: 9 Jul 2020

Robin Litjens

Nyenrode Business University; Tilburg University - CentER and Department of Accountancy

Jeroen Suijs

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Date Written: April 29, 2020

Abstract

This paper examines whether firms foresee the proprietary cost of their mandatory public disclosure by utilizing the supply-and-demand model in a private firm setting where proprietary cost is the primary driver for mandatory public disclosure and its subsequent paid demand. Private firms in the Netherlands are obliged to publicly file financial statements at the Dutch Chamber of Commerce (DCC) within 13 months after their fiscal year-end. This long filing delay serves as a proxy for the firm’s unwillingness to disclose and we measure demand as the timeliness by which these annual reports are subsequently requested at a fee with the DCC by users. Firm-level proprietary cost varies exogenously based on firm size due to disclosure regulation, that is, medium-sized (large) firms file an abbreviated (full) profit and loss account whereas small firms only file a balance sheet.

We document that supply and demand are significantly correlated ‒i.e., the higher the unwillingness of firms to disclose their annual report, the higher the subsequent demand for this report‒ and this correlation is economically significant. To tighten identification, we focus on firms confronted with a change in disclosure requirements due to a change in their size. Next, we exploit three exogenous legislative changes in disclosure regulation: two increases in legislative size criteria, and the requirement for medium-sized firms to disclose ‒next to a balance sheet and profit and loss account‒ a cash flow statement. Our results are also robust to alternative measures of proprietary cost, alternative measures of demand and supply, and the inclusion of additional control variables. Finally, we show paid demand for mandatory public disclosures is associated with subsequent real effects evidenced by lower future firm profitability, and a higher probability of patent application and M&A activity. Overall, this study shows that firms appear able to anticipate the economic significance of proprietary cost due to mandatory public disclosure caused by disclosure regulation.


Keywords: Proprietary Information; Mandatory Disclosure; Information Acquisition; Private Firms

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Litjens, Robin and Suijs, Jeroen, Can Firms Foresee the Proprietary Cost of Mandatory Public Disclosure? (April 29, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3588345 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3588345
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,818
RANK
257,340
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies