Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Reporting and Assurance: The State of the Art

Spanish Accounting Review /Revista de Contabilidad, 2020

61 Pages Posted: 28 May 2020

Isabel Garcia-Sanchez

University of Salamanca

Date Written: January 29, 2020

Abstract

This research reviews the corporate social responsibility disclosure literature based on 330 articles in the 36 main journals in the Thomson Reuters InCities Journal Citation Reports categories of Business, Finance (Accounting), Management, Ethics and others related to Environmental Sciences/Planning and Development. The framework includes predictors of socially responsible disclosure and assurance related to individual, organizational and institutional factors, as well as impacts that we classify as external (i.e., market reactions) or internal (i.e., firm performance). In addition, we establish the moderator and mediator variables with a view to examining whether the relationship between social responsibility reporting/assurance services and its predictors and impacts change. The review reveals important research gaps that allow us to provide suggestions about future research in terms of empirical perspectives.

Keywords: corporate social reporting; corporate social disclosure; sustainability reporting; sustainability disclosure; environmental reporting; environmental disclosure

JEL Classification: M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Garcia-Sanchez, Isabel, Corporate Social Reporting and Assurance: The State of the Art (January 29, 2020). Spanish Accounting Review /Revista de Contabilidad, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3588470 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3588470
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
341 References
R Adler , M Mansi , R Pandey , C Stringer
United Nations Decade on Biodiversity: A study of the reporting practices of the Australian mining industry
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 30 , issue 8 , p. 1711 - 1745 Posted: 2017
Crossref
H Aguinis , A Glavas
What we know and don´t know Corporate Social Responsibility
Journal of Management , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 932 - 96 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Alazzani , W N Wan-Hussin
Global Reporting Initiative's environmental reporting: A study of oil and gas companies
Ecological Indicators , volume 32 , p. 19 - 24 Posted: 2013
Crossref
E Albertini
A Descriptive Analysis of Environmental Disclosure: A Longitudinal Study of French Companies
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 121 , issue 2 , p. 233 - 254 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
444
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,627
RANK
149,425
2 Citations
341 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies