Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Managerial Ownership and the Market for Corporate Control Can Improve Investment Timing

49 Pages Posted: 28 May 2020 Last revised: 1 Mar 2021

Graeme Guthrie

Independent

Cameron Hobbs

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Economics & Finance

Date Written: February 28, 2021

Abstract

We show how CEO ownership and the market for corporate control interact to influence the investment-timing decisions of empire-building CEOs. The prospect of a future takeover means that CEOs with no ownership stake will over-invest in some types of projects and under-invest in others, but these problems are less severe when CEOs have an ownership stake. The value-maximizing level of CEO ownership depends on a firm's investment opportunities. Antitakeover laws that weaken a raider's position in a hostile takeover induce raiders to launch friendly takeovers sooner. The increased takeover threat induces CEOs to delay investing in positive NPV projects, but encourages them to take actions that initiate selling the firm when the takeover gains are high. Optimal ownership-generated incentives and the market for corporate control add more value after antitakeover laws are introduced, especially in situations when potential takeover gains are large.

Keywords: Managerial Ownership, Market for Corporate Control, Manager-Shareholder Conflict, Investment Incentives, Real Options, Antitakeover Laws

JEL Classification: D25, G31, G34

Suggested Citation:

Guthrie, Graeme and Hobbs, Cameron, How Managerial Ownership and the Market for Corporate Control Can Improve Investment Timing (February 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3589923 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3589923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Firm performance and mechanisms to control agency problems between managers and shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
Crossref
G Alexandridis , K P Fuller , L Terhaar , N G Travlos
Deal size, acquisition premia and shareholder gains
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 20 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2013
Crossref
L H R Alvarez , R Stenbacka
Takeover timing, implementation uncertainty, and embedded divestment options
Review of Finance , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 441 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J Atanassov
Do hostile takeovers stifle innovation? Evidence from antitakeover legislation and corporate patenting
Journal of Finance , volume 68 , issue 3 , p. 1097 - 1131 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,020
RANK
697,608
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies