Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Practices in the Context of the Pandemic Crisis

Forthcoming in Corporate Governance: The international journal of business in society.

15 Pages Posted: 5 May 2020 Last revised: 12 May 2023

Sudha Mathew

University of Westminster

Sheeja Sivaprasad

University of Westminster

Date Written: May 1, 2020

Abstract

What is the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on the corporate governance practices of firms? In this paper, first, we discuss the impact of COVID-19, then analyse how corporate governance practises have been affected and conclude with recommendations of policies to be adapted by firms in principle to cope with pandemics of this magnitude. The pandemic crisis triggered unprecedented changes in the manner the firms are governed and managed. This discussion suggests that pandemics have an impact on the governance of firms and how going forward, firms should be prepared to face any eventualities by paying attention to business continuity plans in the event of natural disasters and pandemics. Overall, this paper provides some of the initial insights on how COVID-19 pandemic has given rise to both opportunities and challenges for firms. This article recommends a corporate governance policy focussing on sustainability, well-being and IT infrastructure of coping with any future challenges arising from the aftermath of the pandemic crisis.

Keywords: Corporate governance; board of directors; stakeholders; pandemic crisis

JEL Classification: G3, G30, G38

Suggested Citation:

Mathew, Sudha and Sivaprasad, Sheeja, Corporate Governance Practices in the Context of the Pandemic Crisis (May 1, 2020). Forthcoming in Corporate Governance: The international journal of business in society. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3590253 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3590253
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
M H Chen , S C Jang , W G Kim
The Impact of the SARS Outbreak on Taiwanese Hotel Stock Performance: An Event-Study Approach
International Journal of Hospitality Management , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 200 - 212 Posted: 2007
M R Keogh-Brown , R D Smith , W John Edmunds , P Beutels , R D Smith
The possible macroeconomic impact on the UK of an influenza pandemic
Health Economics , volume 19 , issue 11 , p. 1345 - 1360 Posted: 2010
T Lagoarde-Segot , P L Leoni
Pandemics of the poor and banking stability , volume 37 , p. 4574 - 4583 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,939
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,655
RANK
19,551
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies