Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Determinants of Financial Restatements: A Meta-Analysis

The International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming

64 Pages Posted: 29 May 2020 Last revised: 13 Jul 2020

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Md. Borhan Uddin Bhuiyan

Massey University

Julia Wu

University of Canterbury - Dept of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: July 13, 2020

Abstract

This paper conducts a meta-analysis of 182 published archival accounting and auditing studies on the corporate governance determinants of financial restatements. We aim to provide a focused and systematic examination on various internal and external corporate governance factors that may predict financial restatements. We do so by aggregating results statistically across individual studies and correcting for statistical artefacts. Thereby, we provide findings that are much more precise than those of narrative reviews. We categorize the chosen governance variables into:

(1) audit firm and audit engagement characteristics;

(2) gender, board attributes, and audit committee attributes;

(3) CEO related attributes;

(4) ownership structure variables, and

(5) external corporate governance variables and, thus, we generate a total of 37 separate corporate governance variables.

Our results reveal that the governance mechanisms of Big N auditor choice, types and timeliness of audit opinions, and board independence are significantly and negatively associated with the occurrence of financial restatements. However, economic bonding between auditors and their clients, insider ownership, and firm complexity all increase the likelihood of restatements significantly. We hope that our findings will make a meaningful contribution to the literature on financial restatements and corporate governance by providing insights for regulators on the governance mechanisms that may require further scrutiny in combating the occurrence of financial restatements.

Keywords: Financial Restatements; Corporate Governance; External Auditing; Meta-Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Habib, Ahsan and Bhuiyan, Md. Borhan Uddin and Wu, Julia, Corporate Governance Determinants of Financial Restatements: A Meta-Analysis (July 13, 2020). The International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3591034
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
217 References
H V Bauwhede , M Willekens , A Gaeremynck
Audit firm size, public ownership, and firms' discretionary accruals management
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2003
M H Bazerman , K P Morgan , G F Loewenstein
The impossibility of auditor independence
Sloan Management Review , volume 38 , p. 89 - 94 Posted: 1997
E L Beardsley , D R Lassila , T C Omer
How do audit offices respond to audit fee pressure? Evidence of increased focus on nonaudit services and their impact on audit quality
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 999 - 1027 Posted: 2019
Crossref
M S Beasley
An empirical analysis of the relation between the board of director composition and financial statement fraud
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Ruth V. Aguilera , Kurt A. Desender , Mónica LópezPuertas‐Lamy
Bridging Accounting and Corporate Governance: New Avenues of Research
Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 4851556, · 25 Pages · Posted: 4 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 66
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
437
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,914
RANK
152,310
1 Citations
217 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies