Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of M&A on Performance: Alternative Measures of Rates of Profit

15 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2020

Geoff Meeks

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Jaqueline Meeks

University of Cambridge - Centre for Development Studies

Date Written: May 3, 2020

Abstract

Previous studies of the impact of M&A on performance have employed a range of measures of “profitability” or “rate of return”. Sometimes they have provided little in the way of rationalization; and sometimes the most appropriate measures have not been deployed for testing the chosen hypothesis, or supporting the final inferences. Here we explore a range of measures, their relation one to another, and caveats to their use in assessing operating efficiency or in monitoring the gains to shareholders. We discuss the profit margin, the return on net assets, the return on equity, earnings per share, and the total shareholder return.

We show that the reported change in margin following M&A will, other things equal, overstate any improvement in operating performance where the M&A increases vertical integration. We analyse the difference between the accounting return on net assets and the accounting return on equity, examining the impact of associated changes in capital structure and/or tax arrangements: we report a consequent tendency for the return on equity (and earnings per share, but not the return on net assets) to overstate any improvement in operating performance after M&A. We describe the difference between the accounting return on equity and the total shareholder return, exploring the impact on the latter of changes in stock market perceptions of the combination’s prospects.

Keywords: M&A, profit rates, performance measures

JEL Classification: G34, L25, L41, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Meeks, Geoff and Meeks, Jaqueline, The Impact of M&A on Performance: Alternative Measures of Rates of Profit (May 3, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3591642 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3591642
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Amir Amel-Zadeh
Operating Performance Improvements after Corporate Takeovers: Fact or Fallacy?
Revised version forthcoming in Accounting for M&A: Uses and Abuses of Accounting in Monitoring and Promoting Merger, Routledge Studies in Accounting , Routledge, 2020. Pages: 87 Posted: 5 Jul 2009 Last revised: 24 Apr 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Amel-Zadeh , J Faasse , K Li , G Meeks
Stewardship and value-relevance in accounting for the depletion of purchased goodwill Posted: 2020
Crossref
A Amel-Zadeh , G Meeks
Accounting for M&A: Uses and Abuses of Accounting in Monitoring and Promoting Merger
Routledge Studies in Accounting , volume 2020 Posted: 2020
A Amel-Zadeh , G Meeks
Earnings forecasts accompanying a bid Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,006
RANK
401,016
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies