Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Relevance of Voluntary Internal Control Certification: An Information Asymmetry Perspective

Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 42, No. 4, 2017

Posted: 2 Jun 2020

Mukesh Garg

Independent

Date Written: August 19, 2017

Abstract

Internal control certification reduces information uncertainty on the quality of controls and therefore is expected to affect the pricing of equity securities. This study investigates whether chief executive officers’ (CEOs) and chief financial officers’ (CFOs) voluntary certification of internal controls over financial reporting (ICFR) is value relevant. Using a sample of firms from a unique Australian ICFR reporting environment, the study finds that voluntary ICFR certification is positively associated with share price. Moreover, the financial information of ICFR certification firms is significantly associated with the share price if they have higher price volatility, bid-ask spread and analysts’ forecast dispersion, suggesting ICFR certification has an incremental effect on the value relevance of financial information for firms operating within a weak information environment. Results from the returns model, the change model and differences in the R2 support that ICFR certification is useful to investors. The study informs on the value relevance of ICFR reporting outside the United States.

Keywords: Auditor, bid-ask spread, certification, corporate governance, financial reporting, information asymmetry, internal controls, value relevance

Suggested Citation:

Garg, Mukesh, Value Relevance of Voluntary Internal Control Certification: An Information Asymmetry Perspective (August 19, 2017). Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 42, No. 4, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3592452
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
287
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies