Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance as Collective Intelligence

45 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2020 Last revised: 10 Jun 2022

Daniel Armani

McCombs School of Business - University of Texas at Austin; The Eli Broad Graduate School of Management, Michigan State University

Date Written: December 31, 2019

Abstract

This research presents a design theory modelling governance as a collective intelligence process. The outcome of this process is a solution to a problem. It can be a decision, policy, product, financial plan, etc. The quality (value) of the outcome solution reflects the quality (performance) of the process. Using an analytical model, I identify five key variables as the channels (mediators) through which, different factors and features of the process can affect the quality of the outcome. Based on this model, I propose an asymmetric response surface method to experimentally improve governance mechanisms by introducing factors to the experimental model considering their plausible effects. As a proof of concept, I implemented a generic collective intelligence process in a web application and measured the effects of a few factors on its performance through online experiments. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. They also show that approval voting is significantly superior to plurality voting. Some studies asserted that not the design process, but the designers drive the quality of the outcome. This study shows that the characteristics of the design process (e.g. voting schemes), as well as the designers (e.g. expertise and gender), can significantly affect the quality of the outcome. Hence, the outcome quality can be used as an indicator of the performance of the process. This enables us to evaluate and compare governance mechanisms objectively free from fairness criteria.

Keywords: Collective Intelligence, Crowdsourcing, Design Science, Mechanism Theory, Response Surface Methodology, Distributed Autonomous Organizations

JEL Classification: C92, D72, D81, D82, D83

Suggested Citation:

Armani, Daniel, Governance as Collective Intelligence (December 31, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3592590 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3592590
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
N Archak , A Sundararajan
Optimal Design of Crowdsourcing Contests. Phoenix
The 13th International Conference on Information Systems Posted: 2009
N Atzei , M Bartoletti , T Cimoli
A Survey of Attacks on Ethereum Smart Contracts , p. 164 - 186 Posted: 2017
N Auray
Online communities and governance mechanisms
Governance, Regulation and Powers on the Internet , p. 211 - 231 Posted: 2012
J Bao , Y Sakamoto , J Nickerson
Evaluating Design Solutions Using Crowds
Americas Conference on Information Systems Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,896
RANK
475,518
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Development of Innovation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies