Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Compensation and Risk-Taking of Chinese Banks

11 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2020

Qiubin Huang

University of Science and Technology Beijing

Date Written: April 18, 2020

Abstract

We document a significantly positive relationship between executive compensation and risk-taking of Chinese listed banks over the 2007–2018 period. The finding is robust to the risk measures (Z-score, systematic risk and stock return volatility) used, the way to calculate executive compensation, and model specifications as well as estimation techniques. Further analysis suggests that bank past performance (captured by return on equity) strongly moderates the relationship between executive compensation and risk-taking. We also find a modest U-shaped association of bank Z-score with executive compensation. Our study appears to support the regulation on executive compensation for the sake of bank stability.

Keywords: Executive compensation; Bank risk; Bank performance; Z-score; Chinese banks

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M12

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Qiubin, Executive Compensation and Risk-Taking of Chinese Banks (April 18, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3594987 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3594987
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Y Altunbaş , J Thornton , Y Uymaz
The effect of CEO power on bank risk: Do boards and institutional investors matter? Finance Research Letters , p. 1 - 8 Posted: 2019-06
Crossref
G Bai , E Elyasiani
Bank stability and managerial compensation
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 37 , p. 799 - 813 Posted: 2013
Crossref
H Bai , S Ba , W Huang , W Hu
Expected government support and bank risk-taking: Evidence from China
Finance Research Letters Posted: 2019
Crossref
H O Balli , B E Sørensen
Interaction effects in econometrics
Empirical Economics , volume 45 , p. 583 - 603 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
851
RANK
640,233
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies