Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure when Private Information and Disclosure Costs are Jointly Determined

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2020 Last revised: 29 Dec 2021

Jung Min Kim

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management

Daniel J. Taylor

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania

Robert E. Verrecchia

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Date Written: April 1, 2020

Abstract

Classical models of voluntary disclosure feature two economic forces: the existence of an adverse selection problem (e.g., a manager possesses some private information) and the cost of ameliorating the problem (e.g., costs associated with disclosure). Traditionally these forces are modelled independently. In this paper, we use a simple model to motivate empirical predictions in a setting where these forces are jointly determined––where greater adverse selection entails greater costs of disclosure. We show that joint determination of these forces generates a pronounced non-linearity in the probability of voluntary disclosure. We find that this non-linearity is empirically descriptive of multiple measures of voluntary disclosure in two distinct empirical settings that are commonly thought to feature both private information and proprietary costs: capital investments and sales to major customers.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure; adverse selection; private information; disclosure costs; proprietary costs; capital investment; major customers

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jung Min and Taylor, Daniel and Verrecchia, Robert E., Voluntary Disclosure when Private Information and Disclosure Costs are Jointly Determined (April 1, 2020). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3595320 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3595320
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
C Ai , E Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
L Bamber , Y S Cheon
Discretionary management earnings forecast disclosures: Antecedents and outcomes associated with forecast venue and forecast specificity choices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 190 Posted: 1998
S Banerjee , S Dasgupta , Y Kim
Buyer-supplier relationships and the stakeholder theory of capital structure
Journal of Finance , volume 63 , issue 5 , p. 2507 - 2552 Posted: 2008
P Berger
Challenges and opportunities in disclosure research-A discussion of 'the financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 51 , issue 1-2 , p. 204 - 218 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
471
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,578
RANK
139,359
22 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies