Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Trade-off Theory of Corporate Capital Structure

Oxford Research Encyclopedia of Economics and Finance

65 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2020 Last revised: 13 Jul 2021

Hengjie Ai

University of Wisconsin-Madison

Murray Z. Frank

University of Minnesota

Ali Sanati

American University

Date Written: August 31, 2020

Abstract

This paper provides a survey of the trade-off theory of corporate capital structure. First we provide an analysis of an equilibrium version of the theory. The firm raises debt from an investor. Debt provides interest tax shields but raises the probability of costly bankruptcy. The model provides closed form solutions for the quantity and price of debt. Second, we review dynamic trade-off theory based models. Third, we review the empirical evidence using the equilibrium model as the foundation. The literature has essentially resolved challenges to the theory based on the low leverage puzzle, profits-leverage puzzle, and speed of target adjustment. There is empirical support for predicted interest rate effects, and an impact of market conditions. There is evidence of tax effects in specific contexts, but the predicted tightly structured overall link between taxes and leverage remains challenging to identify. Overall, the theory provides a reasonable basis on which to build our understanding of capital structure. However, we identify several areas where significant theoretical and empirical work remains needed to improve our understanding.

Suggested Citation:

Ai, Hengjie and Frank, Murray Z. and Sanati, Ali, The Trade-off Theory of Corporate Capital Structure (August 31, 2020). Oxford Research Encyclopedia of Economics and Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3595492 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3595492
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
122 References
P M Demarzo
Presidential address: Collateral and commitment
Journal of Finance , volume 74 , p. 1587 - 1619 Posted: 2019
Crossref
M Z Frank , V K Goyal , T Shen
The pecking order theory of capital structure
Economics and Finance Posted: 2020
Crossref
J R Graham , C R Harvey
The theory and practice of corporate finance: Evidence from the field
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 60 , p. 187 - 243 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J R Graham , M T Leary , M R Roberts
A century of capital structure: The leveraging of corporate America
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 118 , p. 658 - 683 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
15,187
RANK
4,098
9 Citations
122 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies