Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Fresh Look at Internal Audit Framework at the Age of Artificial Intelligence (AI)

11 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2020

HASSAN OMIDI FIROUZI

Toronto Dominion Bank (TD)

Sean Wang

TD Bank

Date Written: May 7, 2020

Abstract

With the rise of Artificial Intelligence (AI), industries embraced or are preparing to embrace its potentials. Financial industries, banking industry in particular, are unleashing and harnessing AI powers in various business lines and functional departments. However, similar to other initiatives, AI brings its own opportunities and challenges including various legal and compliance risks. Banks are required to understand this technology clearly and mitigate potential risks associated with the applications of these tools.

Introducing sound and transparent measures to mitigate the potential risks entails new initiatives from various lines of defense within banks. In this paper, our focus is devoted to the third line of defense also known as Internal Audit (IA) function. As a current industry practice, effective challenges for different stages of an AI model from data access, collection and compliance, model development and validation, to the deployment and integration of the model within the established IT systems are performed by different teams within Internal Audit function. These teams do not necessarily look at the end-to-end process in a joint effort but rather perform in solos. This approach has successfully been running until today, however, with AI in place this approach will not be as effective and efficient as used to be. The main rationale underlying this statement is that with AI tools one cannot effectively challenge the data part of the model (or the IT deployment) without knowing sufficient information about the model.

In this paper, we introduce a unified model-centric framework for Internal Audit function to enable the third line of defense to perform effective challenge for AI tools and technology in a smooth and unified way. In this approach, model team is responsible (not only for the model audit part), in collaboration with other teams, for the end-to-end audit process of AI tools.

Keywords: Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Banking, Risk Management, Internal Audit, Fairness, Bias, Privacy

Suggested Citation:

OMIDI FIROUZI, HASSAN and Wang, Sean, A Fresh Look at Internal Audit Framework at the Age of Artificial Intelligence (AI) (May 7, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3595389 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3595389
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Financial Stability Board
Artificial intelligence and machine learning in financial services, market developments and financial stability implications Posted: 2017
Ana Fernandez
Artificial Intelligence in Financial Services
Banco de Espana Article 3/19 Pages: 9 Posted: 6 Apr 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Jagtiani , T Vermilyea , L Wall
The Roles of Big Data and Machine Learning in Bank Supervision Posted: 2018
Bank , England
) and Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Vivek Shivram
AUDITING WITH AI: A THEORETICAL FRAMEWORK FOR APPLYING MACHINE LEARNING ACROSS THE INTERNAL AUDIT LIFECYCLE
EDPACS , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 22 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
716
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,044
RANK
82,176
1 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies