Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Politically Connected Governments

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

115 Pages Posted: 20 May 2020

Christine Cuny

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Jungbae Kim

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Mihir N. Mehta

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 28, 2020

Abstract

This paper examines the consequences of powerful political connections for local governments. We find that governments located within the constituencies of, and thus connected to, powerful congressional members reduce their stewardship over public resources. Using plausibly-exogenous declines in the power of congressional representation, we show that the effect is causal. To better understand why connected local governments can reduce stewardship, we study electoral characteristics. Our findings suggest that the increased resources that come with powerful congressional representation allow local-government officials to reduce stewardship without material adverse effects on their reelection prospects. In sum, our findings provide evidence of a cost of political connections: they weaken local governments' incentives to act in a socially optimal manner.

Keywords: Governance, Stewardship, Political Economy, Financial reports, Congress, Political Connections, Audit

JEL Classification: G18, G38, H1, H7, H83, M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Cuny, Christine and Kim, Jungbae and Mehta, Mihir N., Politically Connected Governments (April 28, 2020). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3595396 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3595396
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
A I Abramowitz
Explaining senate election outcomes
American Political Science Review , volume 82 , issue 2 , p. 385 - 403 Posted: 1988
Crossref
M D Amore , M Bennedsen
The value of local political connections in a lowcorruption environment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 110 , issue 2 , p. 387 - 402 Posted: 2013
Crossref
W R Baber , A K Gore , K T Rich , J X Zhang
Accounting restatements, governance and municipal debt financing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 212 - 227 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A Beck
Opportunistic Financial Reporting around Municipal Bond Issues
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 785 - 826 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,568
RANK
350,629
12 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies