Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Size, Financial Distress, Audit Quality, and Earnings Management of Banking Companies

Kurniawati, A. and Panggabean, R. R., Firm Size, Financial Distress, Audit Quality, and Earnings Management of Banking Companies. Advances in Social Science, Education and Humanities Research, volume 436, pp 413 - 417, 2020

5 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2020

Angela Kurniawati

Accounting Department, Faculty of Economics and Communication, Bina Nusantara University

Rosinta Ria Panggabean

Accounting Department, Faculty of Economics and Communication, Bina Nusantara University

Date Written: September 10, 2019

Abstract

The era of globalization has stimulated the spirit of competition of companies in an ever-intensifying business race of various sectors. In an attempt to sustain the life of the company, earnings figures are kept positive to attract investors and to elevate the company’s social status. This study aims to examine whether firm size, financial distress, and audit quality are influenced by earnings management. This research is a quantitative study from secondary data. A sample of 12 banking companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange in 2014–2018 was used in this research. This research also employed descriptive analysis and panel data regression analysis. Results showed that firm size had a significant negative effect on earnings management; financial distress had a significant positive effect on earnings management; whereas audit quality had no significant effect on earnings management. A multitude of issues arising in banking companies involve earnings management behaviour. It is suggested that investors and the public perform a deeper analysis of the companies in which to invest. Companies are also advised against earning management practices harmful to financial statement users.

Keywords: firm size, financial distress, audit quality, earnings management, banking companies

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Kurniawati, Angela and Panggabean, Rosinta Ria, Firm Size, Financial Distress, Audit Quality, and Earnings Management of Banking Companies (September 10, 2019). Kurniawati, A. and Panggabean, R. R., Firm Size, Financial Distress, Audit Quality, and Earnings Management of Banking Companies. Advances in Social Science, Education and Humanities Research, volume 436, pp 413 - 417, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3597676
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
R A Supriyono
Akuntansi Keperilakuan Posted: 2018
Hery
Analisis Kinerja Manajemen. Jakarta: Gramedia Widiasarana Posted: 2015
P Prasetya , Gayatri
Pengaruh ukuran perusahaan terhadap manajemen laba dengan pengungkapan corporate social responsibility sebagai variabel intervening
E-Jurnal Akuntansi , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 511 - 538 Posted: 2016-01
I S Amertha , I K Prasavita , I A Ulupui , Putri
Analysis of firm size, leverage, corporate governance on earning management practices (Indonesia evicence)
Business, and Accountancy Ventura , volume 17 , issue 2 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
533
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,718
RANK
120,559
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies