Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ethical Behaviour of Professional Accountants in Brunei

The 1st International Conference on Business, Management and Information Systems 2019

17 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2020

Nuramalina Sufian

Universiti Teknologi Brunei

Ulaganathan Subramanian

Universiti Teknologi Brunei

Noor Maya Salleh

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

Ethical behavior is deemed important in today’s environment as corruption scandals persist to exist. Financial malpractices have directed research attention to increase professional accountant’s ethicality. This paper tries to analyses the ethical behavior of Bruneian Accounting professionals in Small and Medium Enterprises. High-profile accounting failures have led to the introduction of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants produced by International Ethics Standards Boards for Accountants as they serve public interest by setting-high quality ethical standards. This paper additionally examines the ethical issues that occur in organizations and individuals specifically. The paper then tries to analyses how different factors and demographic variables affect the moral attitudes of Bruneian accountants. Moreover, this research paper explains how education and training on ethics might improve ethical sensitivity and awareness of ethical issues. Questionnaires were distributed to various small and medium enterprises in Brunei. As there are no previous papers addressing the ethicality of Bruneian individuals in organizations, this paper tries to accomplish how Bruneian accountants think ethically and their awareness of the importance of ethical behavior in businesses. We used averaging method to calculate the data and we found that there are variations among gender, age group and working experience in ethical behavior.

Keywords: Ethical Behaviour, Accounting Professionals, Brunei

Suggested Citation:

Sufian, Nuramalina and Subramanian, Ulaganathan and Salleh, Noor Maya, Ethical Behaviour of Professional Accountants in Brunei (2019). The 1st International Conference on Business, Management and Information Systems 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3597292
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Abu Bakar , N B Ismail , S Mamat , S
Ethics of Future Accounting Professionals: Evidence from Malaysia
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 33 Posted: 2008
S H Appelbaum , K J Deguire , M Lay
The relationship of ethical climate to deviant workplace behavior, Corporate Governance: The international journal of business in society , volume 5 , p. 43 - 55 Posted: 2005
F Arfaoui , S Damak-Ayadi , R Ghram , A Bouchekoua
Ethics Education and Accounting Students' Level of Moral Development: Experimental Design in Tunisian Audit Context
Journal of Business Ethics , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M B Armstrong , J E Ketz , D Owsen
Ethics education in accounting: moving toward ethical motivation and ethical behavior
Journal of Accounting Education , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
956
RANK
362,694
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies