Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Securitization and Earnings Management: Evidence from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act

Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance, 2020

27 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2020

Anin Rupp

Chiang Mai University

Date Written: May 12, 2020

Abstract

This paper examines whether the opportunistic use of assets securitization for earnings management is systematically widespread. It is hypothesized that with the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which imposed more stringent governance over the financial reporting process, there should be a decrease in the opportunistic use of securitization among firms that were not compliant prior to the passage. The empirical results show that there was a significant decrease in securitization among the non-compliant firms relative to the compliant firms and this reduction is related to firms using securitization opportunistically. This evidence suggests that securitization for earnings management was a systematic phenomenon and that SOX was effective in mitigating such behavior.

Keywords: securitization; non nancial firms; sarbanes-oxley act

JEL Classification: G18, G23, G28, G30

Suggested Citation:

Rupp, Anin, Securitization and Earnings Management: Evidence from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (May 12, 2020). Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3598994
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
R Adams , B Hermalin , M Weisbach
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S Banerjee , M Humphery-Jenner , V Nanda
Restraining Overconfident CEOs through Improved Governance: Evidence from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 10 , p. 2812 - 2858 Posted: 2015
Crossref
I V Coates , J
The Goals and Promise of the SarbanesOxley Act
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 116 Posted: 2007
Crossref
D Cohen , A Dey , T Lys
Real and Accrual-Based Earnings Management in the Pre-and Post-Sarbanes-Oxley Periods
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 757 - 787 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
574
RANK
649,230
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies