Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor-Driven Governance Standards and Firm Value

54 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2020 Last revised: 23 Mar 2022

Yonca Ertimur

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Paige Harrington Patrick

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 22, 2022

Abstract

We examine the relation between governance standards proposed by a diverse, influential group of institutional investors, the Investor Stewardship Group (ISG), and firm outcomes. The ISG governance framework is unique in that it represents a coordinated effort by institutional investors to achieve common changes in portfolio firms’ corporate governance. We document a positive association between governance provisions included in the ISG framework and firm value. We also find that boards of firms with a greater proportion of ISG provisions in place are more likely to dismiss poorly performing CEOs and less likely to restate financial reports, but we do not find that market reactions to M&A activity are associated with consistency with the ISG framework. Collectively, our results suggest institutional investors are able and willing to identify “good” governance practices, though the potential benefits of these practices do not extend to all monitoring outcomes.

Keywords: Institutional Investors, Corporate Governance, Monitoring

JEL Classification: G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Ertimur, Yonca and Patrick, Paige Harrington, Investor-Driven Governance Standards and Firm Value (March 22, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3599479 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3599479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does Governance Travel Around the World? Evidence from Institutional Investors , volume 100 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
C H Allen
Study of majority voting in director elections
Neal, Gerber & Eisenberger LLP Posted: 2007
I R Appel , T A Gormley , D B Keim
Passive Investors, not Passive Owners
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 141 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,199
RANK
388,737
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies