Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customer Concentration and M&A Performance

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2020 Last revised: 21 Jun 2021

Yizhe Dong

University of Edinburgh Business School

Chang Li

East China Normal University (ECNU)

Haoyu Li

University of Edinburgh Business School

Date Written: June 20, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines how the target’s customer concentration affects merger performance. We find that the acquirer purchasing a customer-concentrated firm experiences significantly lower stock market returns and worse long-run operating performance. The effect is more pronounced when customers face lower switching costs or the target undertakes a higher level of relationship-specific investments, exhibits higher cash volatility, or is acquired by a less well-known company. Further analysis shows that the negative association is mainly driven by corporate customers, while relatively safe government customers moderate the effect. We also find that shared major customers, overconfident CEOs, and poor corporate governance are more likely to increase the likelihood of customer-concentrated acquisitions. Overall, our findings suggest that higher customer concentration leads to lower value creation in mergers.

Keywords: customer concentration; mergers and acquisitions; announcement return; major government customer

JEL Classification: G30; G34; M41

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Yizhe and Li, Chang and Li, Haoyu, Customer Concentration and M&A Performance (June 20, 2021). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3599978 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3599978
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
9 Citations
Leonidas G. Barbopoulos , Yizhe Dong , Chang Li , Haoyu Li
Connected Acquirers and Advisors and M&A Outcomes 
38 Pages · Posted: 6 Jun 2022 · Downloads: 120
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kai Wu , Yufei Lu , Donghui Li
Contingent Cash Crunch: How Do Performance Commitments Affect Acquirer Liquidity?
76 Pages · Posted: 6 Jun 2022 · Last revised: 13 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 124
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Feng Dong , John A. Doukas , Rongyao Zhang , Stephanie Walton , Yiyang Zhang
Do Major Customers Affect Suppliers' ESG Activities?
JBF-D-23-00960 · 55 Pages · Posted: 20 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 140
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
G.M Wali Ullah , Christiana Osei Bonsu , Mohammad Abdullah , Sajal Dey
Customer Concentration and the Readability of 10-K Reports
CORFIN-D-23-00965 · 60 Pages · Posted: 23 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 100
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
301
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,306
RANK
230,777
9 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies