Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board of Directors Network Centrality and Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Performance

Corporate Governance: An International Journal of Business in Society [2020 Forthcoming]

37 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2020

Maretno A. Harjoto

Pepperdine University - Pepperdine Graziadio Business School (PGBS)

Yan Wang

Nottingham Business School

Date Written: May 12, 2020

Abstract

Drawing from social capital, social network theory of stakeholder influence, and stakeholder management, this study examines the relationship between board network centrality and firms’ environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance. Using social network analysis, we construct five board network centrality, namely degree centrality (the number of connections), closeness centrality (distance among firms), eigenvector centrality (the quality of connections), betweenness centrality (how often a firm sits between two other firms), and the information centrality (the speed and reliability of information), as measures of board access for social capital and timely information. Using a sample of non-financial firms listed in the UK FTSE 350 index from 2007 to 2018, we find that board networks, measured by degree, closeness, eigenvector, betweenness, and information centrality, have positive influence on firms’ environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance. Furthermore, our findings show that there is a non-linear relationship between board networks and ESG performance and this relationship is stronger in the sectors where firms that have high product market concentration and high percentage of women board members.This study unveils that strong board network centrality brings higher social (reputational) capital and information advantages to the firm to effectively, timely, and accurately deal with the pressures from stakeholders (stakeholder management), which leads to better environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance.

Keywords: Board network centrality, social network analysis, stakeholder management, ESG performance, non-linear

JEL Classification: M14, L14, G3

Suggested Citation:

Harjoto, Maretno Agus and Wang, Yan, Board of Directors Network Centrality and Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Performance (May 12, 2020). Corporate Governance: An International Journal of Business in Society [2020 Forthcoming], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3600536
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
P S Adler , S W Kwon
Social capital: Prospects for a new concept
Academy of Management Review , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 40 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R V Aguilera
Corporate governance and director accountability: An institutional comparative perspective
British Journal of Management , volume 16 , issue 81 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R V Aguilera , C A Williams , J M Conley , D E Rupp
Corporate governance and social responsibility: A comparative analysis of the UK and US firms
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 147 - 158 Posted: 2006
Crossref
G Ahuja
Collaboration networks, structural holes, and innovation: a longitudinal study
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 45 , issue 3 , p. 425 - 455 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Eren Cifci , Alan Tidwell
'Connect' Me! Social Networking in Commercial Real Estate Brokerage
41 Pages · Posted: 8 Sep 2022 · Downloads: 70
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bruno Buchetti , Francesca Romana Arduino
A Literature Review on Corporate Governance and ESG research: Emerging Trends and Future directions
65 Pages · Posted: 18 Jul 2023 · Last revised: 9 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 478
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Anand Kumar , Tatiana King , Mikko Ranta
Corporate Governance Characteristics and Involvement in ESG Activities: Current Trends and Research Directions
FINANA-D-23-01010 · 34 Pages · Posted: 22 Jul 2023 · Last revised: 31 Aug 2023 · Downloads: 353
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
388
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,973
RANK
174,532
3 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies