Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Reporting: Compliance with Upper Limits for Severance Payments to Members of Executive Boards in Germany

Discussion Paper of the Institute for Organisational Economics 7/2019

30 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2020

Alexander Dilger

University of Münster

Ute Schottmüller-Einwag

University of Münster

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 1, 2019

Abstract

This paper examines how corporate governance reporting corresponds to actual conduct regarding severance payment caps for prematurely departing members of companies’ executive boards in Germany. For this purpose, we first evaluate the declarations of conformity for all companies listed in the CDAX between 2010 and 2014, which we use to determine conformity and deviation rates, and analyse reasons for deviation. In a further full survey, we assess the compensation amounts of all severance payments made and published by DAX companies to their executive board members who were prematurely terminated, which allows us to compare the respective severance ratio with the cap recommended by the German Corporate Governance Codex (GCGC). We find that more than 20% of companies listed in the CDAX declared deviation in the declaration of conformity, and one-third of all deviations were justified by a rejection of the normative decision of the recommendation. Moreover, in 57% of actual severance cases where DAX companies had previously declared their compliance, the cap was exceeded; yet, none of the companies that had exceeded the cap in a severance case disclosed this in the following declaration of conformity. In the years under review, for the majority of severance cases in companies listed in the DAX, the GCGC’s cap did not have any factual binding effect. Finally, in most cases the corporate reports deviated from reality and therefore could not serve as a suitable basis for decisions by the capital market.

Keywords: Codex, Corporate Governance, Executive Board, Germany, Reporting, Severance Payment

JEL Classification: D86, G34, G38, J33, J63, J65, K12, K31, M12, M52, M55

Suggested Citation:

Dilger, Alexander and Schottmüller-Einwag, Ute, Corporate Governance Reporting: Compliance with Upper Limits for Severance Payments to Members of Executive Boards in Germany (July 1, 2019). Discussion Paper of the Institute for Organisational Economics 7/2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3601033 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3601033
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
R V Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of Good Governance. Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 17 , p. 376 - 387 Posted: 2009
G Bachmann , G Bachmann , M Lutter , Werder
Vorstand VII. Vergütung 7. Zusagen im Zusammenhang mit dem Ausscheiden b) Abfindungs-Cap , volume 7 , p. 263 - 269 Posted: 2018
A Bassen , M Kleinschmidt , S Prigge , C Zöllner
Deutscher Corporate Governance Kodex und Unternehmenserfolg
Die Betriebswirtschaft (DBW) , volume 66 , issue 4 , p. 375 - 401 Posted: 2006
J.-H Bauer , C Arnold
Sind Abfindungs-Caps in Vorstandsverträgen wirklich zu empfehlen? -Zur Überarbeitung des Deutschen Corporate Governance Kodex
BetriebsBerater , volume 63 , issue 3 , p. 1692 - 1697 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
747
RANK
841,369
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies