Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Show Me the Money! Dividend Policy in Countries with Weak Institutions

Journal of Accounting Research, 2021, 59 (2), 613–655

55 Pages Posted: 27 May 2020 Last revised: 24 May 2021

Atif Ellahie

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Zachary Kaplan

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 15, 2021

Abstract

We hypothesize that, in weak-institution countries, firms adjust the 'timing' of dividend payments by committing to distribute a percentage of current earnings as dividends, revealing the extent of firm-level agency conflicts to future investors and facilitating the raising of external capital. Consistent with this hypothesis, we find that, on average, firms in weak-institution countries have a higher speed of adjustment (SOA) to their target payout ratio, pay dividends earlier in the lifecycle, and are more likely to disclose a dividend policy committing to pay a minimum percentage of earnings. Within-country tests show that, in weak-institution countries, the firms with the highest SOA dividend policies have fewer agency problems and an increased ability to raise external capital. Finally, returns tests around earnings announcements show that high-SOA dividend policies are associated with larger market reactions to earnings in weak-institution countries. Collectively, our findings suggest that dividend policy helps to alleviate agency conflicts in weak institution countries between firms and (future) investors.

Keywords: dividend policy, payout policy, earnings, institutional quality

JEL Classification: G15, G32, G35

Suggested Citation:

Ellahie, Atif and Kaplan, Zachary, Show Me the Money! Dividend Policy in Countries with Weak Institutions (March 15, 2021). Journal of Accounting Research, 2021, 59 (2), 613–655, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3601931 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3601931
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,784
RANK
210,151
15 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies