Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value Accounting and Value Relevance of Equity Book Value and Net Income for European Financial Firms During the Crisis

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation. 2020 DOI:ACCAUD_100320

33 Pages Posted: 27 May 2020

Sami Adwan

University of Sussex

Alaa Alhaj Ismail

Coventry University

Claudia Girardone

Essex Business School - University of Essex

Date Written: May 14, 2020

Abstract

This paper examines whether and how the level of exposure to fair value accounting moderates the changes in the value relevance of equity book value and net income during a crisis period. Using a sample of European listed financial firms over 2005-2011, our analysis confirms prior literature that the value relevance of book value of equity increases, while that of net income decreases during the financial crisis. More importantly, our findings offer robust support for the hypothesis that the impact of the crisis is less pronounced for firms whose financial statements are more exposed to fair value accounting. This evidence can be explained by the increased valuation weight placed by investors on the book value of equity relative to net income for firms with more exposure to fair value in the pre-crisis period.

Keywords: Value Relevance; Fair Value; Financial Crisis; Financial Firms

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Adwan, Sami and Alhaj Ismail, Alaa and Girardone, Claudia, Fair Value Accounting and Value Relevance of Equity Book Value and Net Income for European Financial Firms During the Crisis (May 14, 2020). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation. 2020 DOI:ACCAUD_100320, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3601703
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,179
RANK
366,257
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies