Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Regulators Effective at Unraveling Accounting Manipulation? Evidence from Public Utility Commissions

Management Science 67(7), p.3985-4642

52 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2020 Last revised: 14 Sep 2021

Jivas Chakravarthy

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting

Katie McDermott

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Roger M. White

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 14, 2020

Abstract

Prior research proposes that a monopolist with private information inflates their reported costs under rate regulation to extract an informational rent. Using a sample of U.S. electric utilities from 1990-2011, we first confirm an unexpected increase in operating expense during rate review periods, then decompose operating expense into its cash and accrual components and find the cash component accounts for 89% of this increase. The observed pattern is consistent with some combination of real activities management and utility managers misrepresenting transitory expense shocks as permanent. We then focus on identifying regulators’ effectiveness at unraveling this manipulation and minimizing the rent. We estimate that, on average, regulators allow 17¢ out of every dollar of abnormal cash expense to be recovered in future annual revenue, a statistically significant amount. Next, we study the effects of regulators’ ability (proxied by experience) and motivation (proxied by whether they were elected) to unravel accounting manipulation. We find that while inexperienced and politically appointed regulators allow a significant portion of abnormal cash expense to be recovered (41¢ and 24¢ out of every dollar, respectively), experienced and elected regulators do not (although the difference between appointed and elected regulators is not statistically significant). Our findings suggest that regulators differ in their ability to identify manipulation – with experience enhancing this ability – and that, on average, state regulators effectively unravel most of the effect of accounting manipulation.

Keywords: accounting manipulation, asymmetric information, informational rent, regulated utilities

JEL Classification: L51, L94, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chakravarthy, Jivas and McDermott, Katie and White, Roger M., Are Regulators Effective at Unraveling Accounting Manipulation? Evidence from Public Utility Commissions (April 14, 2020). Management Science 67(7), p.3985-4642 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3602370
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
A Alesina , G Tabellini
Bureaucrats or Politicians? Part I: A Single Policy Task
American Economic Review , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 169 - 179 Posted: 2007
D D Anderson
Regulatory Politics and Electric Utilities: A Case Study in Political Economy Posted: 1981
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
H Averch , L L Johnson
Behavior of the Firm Under Regulatory Constraint
The American Economic Review , volume 52 , issue 5 , p. 1052 - 1069 Posted: 1962
Load more
2 Citations
Doron Nissim
Earnings Quality, Fundamental Analysis and Valuation
Columbia Business School Research Paper · 738 Pages · Posted: 1 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 18 Jul 2025 · Downloads: 9,503
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Massimiliano Bonacchi , Fabio Ciaponi , Antonio Marra , Ron Shalev
The Consequences of Accounting-Based Regulation: Real Effects on European Football Players Transfer Market
52 Pages · Posted: 6 Dec 2021 · Last revised: 30 May 2023 · Downloads: 825
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
924
RANK
511,510
2 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies