Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Regulation/Supervision and Bank Auditing

48 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2020 Last revised: 14 Jul 2022

Al (Aloke) Ghosh

UNC Charlotte

Henry Jarva

Hanken School of Economics

Stephen G. Ryan

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Date Written: June 21, 2024

Abstract

We investigate how bank regulation and supervision influence banks’ internal control quality, banks’ financial statement reliability, and the effort expended by bank auditors. Using material weaknesses in internal controls disclosed under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as the proxy for internal control quality, we find that banks exhibit significantly higher internal control quality than comparable nonbank financial firms. Using restatements of financial statements as the proxy for financial statement reliability, we find that banks’ financial reports are more reliable than those of comparable nonbanks. Using audit fees as the proxy for audit effort, we find that auditors expend less effort in audits of banks than in audits of comparable nonbanks. Collectively, our findings suggest that the combination of bank audits and banking regulation/supervision significantly improves banks’ internal control quality and financial statement reliability, despite auditors expending less effort in bank audits compared to nonbanks.

Keywords: audit quality, banks, financial statement reliability, internal control quality, nonbanks

JEL Classification: G21, G23, G28, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ghosh, Al (Aloke) and Jarva, Henry and Ryan, Stephen G., Bank Regulation/Supervision and Bank Auditing (June 21, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3603346 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3603346
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , F Trebbi
Inconsistent regulators: Evidence from banking
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , issue 2 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney , Jr
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
D Avraham , P Selvaggi , J Vickrey
A structural view of US bank holding companies
Federal Reserve Bank of New York Economic Policy Review , p. 65 - 81 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
420
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,049
RANK
159,379
2 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies