Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of IPOs on Innovations: Short-Termism or Initial Governance Force Exit?

Managerial and Decision Economics 2020; https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/mde.3148

Posted: 16 Sep 2020

Xiangchao Hao

Institute of Finance, School of Economics, Nankai University

Qingbin Meng

Renmin University of China

Kaijuan Gao

Business School, Hunan University

Kam C. Chan

Western Kentucky University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: May 18, 2020

Abstract

We study the impact of initial public offerings (IPOs) on corporate innovations in China. The findings suggest that going public significantly impedes corporate innovations by lowering overall innovation quality. For firms with shareholders selling or pledging less shares after IPO, the number of patents increases but the non-self-citations per patent decrease relative to matched non-IPO firms. In contrast, for firms with shareholders selling or pledging more shares after IPOs, both the number of patents and non-self-citations per patent decrease. The magnitudes of impact in the latter are stronger than those of former, supporting the initial governance force exit hypothesis.

Keywords: Initial public offerings; innovation quality; short-termism; initial governance force exit; China

JEL Classification: G34; O31

Suggested Citation:

Hao, Xiangchao and Meng, Qingbin and Gao, Kaijuan and Chan, Johnny, The Impact of IPOs on Innovations: Short-Termism or Initial Governance Force Exit? (May 18, 2020). Managerial and Decision Economics 2020; https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/mde.3148, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3603769
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
603
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies