Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Investor Perspective on the Black Box of Corporate Social Responsibility

Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, Vol. 31, Issue 2, pp. 92-104, 2019

15 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2023

Chitru S. Fernando

University of Oklahoma - Michael F. Price College of Business

Vahap Bülent Uysal

DePaul University

Amal Abeysekera

Hofstra University

Date Written: Spring 2019

Abstract

In summarizing the findings of their recent study, the authors report findings that suggest that not all socially responsible corporate policies are likely to have the same effect on a company's ownership and value. Using environmental policy as their proxy for CSR activities, the authors classify corporate environmental practices into two categories: (1) actions that reduce the likelihood of harmful outcomes by reducing the corporate exposure to environmental risk; and (2) actions that enhance companies' perceived ‘greenness’ through investments that go beyond both legal requirements and any conceivable risk management rationale. Although both groups of environmental practices are likely to be viewed as socially beneficial, corporate expenditures that reduce a firm's environmental risk exposure are more likely to benefit shareholders by limiting the risk of losses arising from environmental accidents, lawsuits, and fines—and possibly thereby reducing the firm's cost of capital. By contrast, corporate expenditures that enhance the firm's perceived greenness by going beyond legal requirements and risk management rationales could actually reduce shareholder value. Consistent with this hypothesis, the authors find that institutional investors tend to own smaller than average percentages of both companies the authors identify as ‘toxic’ and make limited efforts to manage their environmental risk, and companies they label ‘green’ with low environmental risk exposure but relatively high CSR spending on the environment. At the same time, such investors hold larger‐than‐average positions in ‘neutral’ companies with relatively low, or effectively managed, environmental risk exposures and limited investment in ‘greenness’ programs. The authors also find that both toxic and green companies have lower (Tobin's Q) valuations than neutral companies, and that otherwise toxic companies that effectively manage their environmental risk exposures have higher valuations.

Suggested Citation:

Fernando, Chitru S. and Uysal, Vahap B. and Abeysekera, Amal, An Investor Perspective on the Black Box of Corporate Social Responsibility (Spring 2019). Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, Vol. 31, Issue 2, pp. 92-104, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604420 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/jacf.12351
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
A P Abeysekera , C S Fernando
Corporate Social Responsibility versus Corporate Shareholder Responsibility: A ness also depresses shareholder value. Viewed together, these findings suggest that the "smart money" controlled by institutional investors distinguishes between decreases in toxicity and increases in greenness, although these policies may be viewed as equivalent by the public and even SRI shareholders. We also observe significant differences in Tobin's Q across different environmental performance groupings. Both toxic and green firms have lower values of Tobin's Q than neutral firms. Our finding that toxic firms, which have higher exposure to environmental risk, have lower valuations is consistent with the predictions of risk management theories. Collectively, these findings indicate that lower valuations of green and toxic firms persist, which is in line with the lower institutional holdings in these stocks. This study complements the growing literature on CSR and SRI by providing a much-needed investor perspective on corporate environmental policy. By looking inside the CSR black box, our findings provide several new insights and point to a fruitful new line of research that is likely to grow Family Firm Perspective
Journal of Corporate Finance forthcoming Posted: 2019
F Allen , A E Bernardo , I Welch
A Theory of Dividends Based on Tax Clienteles
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 2499 - 2536 Posted: 2000
J A Bennet , R W Sias , L T Starks
Greener Pastures and the Impact of Dynamic Institutional Preferences
Review of Financial Studies , volume 16 , p. 1203 - 1238 Posted: 2003
E Boehmer , E K Kelley ; Brickley , J A , J L Coles , R L Terry
Institutional Investors and the Informational Efficiency of Prices
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 22 , p. 371 - 390 Posted: 1994
Load more
1 Citations
Ariadna Dumitrescu , Mohammed Zakriya
Stakeholders and the Stock Price Crash Risk: What Matters in Corporate Social Performance?
Journal of Corporate Finance, Vol. 67, No. 101871, 2021 · 48 Pages · Posted: 6 Jan 2019 · Last revised: 24 Feb 2022 · Downloads: 462
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
999
RANK
819,493
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies