Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Doing Good When Doing Well: Evidence on Real Earnings Management

46 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2020 Last revised: 4 May 2021

William Grieser

Texas Christian University

Charles J. Hadlock

University of Pittsburgh

Joshua R. Pierce

University of Alabama Culverhouse College of Commerce

Date Written: May 4, 2021

Abstract

We provide evidence on earnings management by exploiting temporary exogenous shocks to
utility firms’ sales arising from weather variation. We find that sample firms’ sales are highly
sensitive to annual changes in average temperatures in the region where the firm operates, but this
sensitivity disappears quickly moving down the income statement. This evidence, while indirect,
is suggestive of earnings management activities. In search of direct evidence, we study charitable
giving decisions by sample firms and uncover a significant positive sensitivity of charitable
spending to weather-driven demand shocks, behavior that is highly consistent with the presence of
real earnings management efforts. We find no convincing evidence supporting possible alternative
explanations for this evidence, but we do find limited support for the presence of a larger
giving-weather relation when earnings management incentives are likely to be elevated. If other real
decisions with similar characteristics scale proportionally to charitable giving, our findings suggest
that the overall magnitude of real earnings management activities could be quite substantial.

Keywords: real earnings management; charitable giving; weather; regulated utilities

JEL Classification: M41, G31, G32, L21

Suggested Citation:

Grieser, William and Hadlock, Charles J. and Pierce, Joshua R., Doing Good When Doing Well: Evidence on Real Earnings Management (May 4, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3605387 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3605387
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
A Abdel-Khalik , Rashad
Incentives for accruing costs and efficiency in regulated monopolies subject to ROE constraint
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 26 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Ashiq Ali , Weining Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Mary E Barth , A John , Mark W Elliott , Finn
Market Rewards Associated with Patterns of Increasing Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 37 , p. 387 - 413 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Eli Bartov , Dan Givoly , Carla Hayn
The rewards to meeting or beating earnings expectations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
226
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,717
RANK
308,851
6 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies