Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Routine Labor Generate Routine Earnings?

54 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2020 Last revised: 3 Apr 2023

Yi Cao

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Nicholas Seybert

University of Maryland - Department of Accounting & Information Assurance

Date Written: April 2, 2023

Abstract

Prior research investigates how skills and attributes of upper management affect firm policies and performance, but the impact of workers outside of upper management has received little attention due to scarcity of data involving lower-level workers. Using a unique dataset, we find that a firm’s utilization of routine labor (defined as labor at greater risk of future automation) generates more persistent accruals and earnings, after controlling for other traditional measures of firm complexity, innovation, and capital investment. The effects of routine labor are more pronounced for firms where employees play a larger role in the production process, when managers have higher ability, and when firm efficiency is higher. We further isolate the accrual effect by demonstrating that the discretionary component of accruals is primarily responsible for increased persistence, and that manufacturing firms only exhibit increased persistence in years where they accrue additional labor costs into inventory. An out-of-sample test using a staggered economic shock (Inevitable Disclosure Doctrine), an instrumental variable approach utilizing county-level ARPANET nodes, and several other robustness tests yield similar results. Taken together, our results suggest the characteristics of lower-level workers interact with those of firms, managers, and the economy to determine the persistence of accruals and earnings.

Keywords: routine, labor, automation, earnings, accruals, cash flow, persistence, predictability, analyst, forecast, occupations, managers, managerial ability

JEL Classification: G00, G30, M11, M41, M54

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Yi and Seybert, Nicholas, Does Routine Labor Generate Routine Earnings? (April 2, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3605303 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3605303
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
A Agrawal , I Hacamo , Z Hu
Information dispersion across employees and stock returns. Working paper
Posted: 2020
K J Arrow , H B Chenery , B S Minhas , R M Solow
Capital-labor substitution and economic efficiency
The review of Economics and Statistics , p. 225 - 250 Posted: 1961
D H Autor
Why are there still so many jobs? The history and future of workplace automation
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 2015
B Baik , D B Farber , S Lee
CEO ability and management earnings forecasts , volume 28 , p. 1645 - 1668 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,062
RANK
271,899
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies