Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure of Tax-Related Critical Audit Matters and Tax-Related Outcomes

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2020 Last revised: 26 Oct 2023

Katharine D. Drake

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting

Nathan C. Goldman

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Stephen J. Lusch

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Jaime J. Schmidt

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: October 24, 2023

Abstract

Given that tax-related critical audit matters (tax CAMs) were prevalent among accelerated filers (18.5 percent of observations) during the initial year of CAM disclosures, we examine whether an auditor’s disclosure of tax CAMs is associated with variation in tax-related financial reporting quality, tax avoidance, and tax-related earnings management. Finding an association between tax CAMs and one of these tax outcomes would indicate that the new auditor reporting standard has indirectly affected investors. Examining the first year of CAM disclosures, we do not find that tax CAMs are associated with broad proxies of tax-related audit or financial reporting quality (e.g., restatements, internal control weaknesses, comment letters) or tax avoidance (e.g., effective tax rates or book-to-tax differences). We do find that tax CAMs are associated with a modest increase in tax accrual quality, an increase in the reserve for uncertain tax benefits, and a reduction in the likelihood of tax-related earnings management. However, we do not find these tax CAM effects persist into the second year of CAM reporting. Our evidence is consistent with tax CAM disclosures having a modest but short-lived effect on companies’ reporting of tax accounts. Our findings should inform the PCAOB as they conduct their post-implementation review of the new audit reporting standard.w audit reporting standard.

Keywords: critical audit matters, tax reporting, tax avoidance, tax-related earnings management, expanded audit reports, financial reporting quality

Suggested Citation:

Drake, Katharine D. and Goldman, Nathan C. and Lusch, Stephen J. and Schmidt, Jaime J., Disclosure of Tax-Related Critical Audit Matters and Tax-Related Outcomes (October 24, 2023). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3606701 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3606701
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,709
RANK
44,023
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies