Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Monitoring and Bonding Mechanisms of Good Corporate Governance Towards Banks Performance

Humanities & Social Sciences Reviews, 2020

9 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2020

Rohmini Indah Lestari

Semarang University

Date Written: March 28, 2020

Abstract

Purpose of the study: This paper aims to examine the effects of the monitoring mechanism and bonding mechanism of corporate governance on the performance of the bank. The monitoring mechanism is divided into an external mechanism, represented by concentrated ownership, and the internal mechanism is represented by the proportion of independent board. Bonding mechanism is measured issuance of bonds as long-term debt financing.

Methodology: This study is predictive and exploratory, so the Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modeling using a WarpPLS60 application. Researchers use data from 24 banks that constantly has the value of bonds circulated, which from 2011 to 2018. There are consists of 4 state-owned commercial banks, 13 private banks, and 7 regional government-owned banks.

Main Findings: The researcher found that external monitoring mechanisms as measured by ownership concentration, positively and significantly influence the performance at government-owned banks. Internal monitoring mechanism, as measured by the percentage of the number of independent commissioners, positively and significantly affects the performance at all the banks. The bonding mechanism as measured by issuing bonds negatively and significantly affects the performance of all the banks.

Applications of this study: The integrative multi-theory model proposed by the authors in this study is a unique contribution to the intermediary financial literature. Banks seeking to maximize their performance must be balanced with the interests of shareholders and their stakeholders.

Novelty/Originality of this study: The study examined the differences in behavior and the role of monitoring and bonding mechanisms of corporate governance in state-owned banks and private. The results of this study contribute to the theory of entrenchment and financial inter-mediation.

Keywords: Bank Performance, Bond Funding, Bonding Mechanism, Good Corporate Governance, Monitoring Mechanism, Path Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Lestari, Rohmini Indah, The Role of Monitoring and Bonding Mechanisms of Good Corporate Governance Towards Banks Performance (March 28, 2020). Humanities & Social Sciences Reviews, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3606788
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
D B Aguilar
Impact of corporate governance on Peruvian banks' financial strength
Working Paper Series , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2016
N Altaf , F A Shah
Ownership concentration and firm performance in Indian firms: does investor protection quality matter
Journal of Indian Business Research Posted: 2018
Crossref
Y Amihud , K Garbade , M Kahan
A New Governance Structure for Corporate Bonds
Stanford Law Review , volume 51 , issue 3 , p. 447 - 492 Posted: 1999
Crossref
I Astrauskaite , A Paškevicius
Competition between Banks and Bond Markets: Hardly Impacted or Softly Complemented
Procedia Economics and Finance , volume 9 , issue 14 , p. 12 - 16 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,087
RANK
375,436
1 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies