Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigating the Effect of Value Added as an Intellectual Capital Index on the Performance of Corporation: Empirical Evidence from Companies Listed in Tehran Stock Exchange

Applied mathematics in Engineering, Management and Technology 72 (2014) 25253-25260

12 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2020

rahim bonabi ghadim

Islamic Azad University (IAU)

Date Written: June 20, 2014

Abstract

The main propose of this research is the analyses of value added rule as an intellectual index on the financial, economical and stock market performance of corporations at this research the effect of value added (intellectual capital and used capital) on the financial, economical and stock market of corporation in Tehran exchange commission through the 2006 until 2012 with the method of regression has survived. Results show that the coefficient of intellectual capital value added is effective at corporation performance although among the coefficient of intellectual capital and financial and economical performance is meaningful relationship but there is not meaningful relation among used capital corporation performance that is arising from not being relation among value added coefficient and financial, economical and market performance of corporations.

So we can conclude that intellectual capital value added in comparison with used capital value added has more and important effect on corporation performance especially at financial and economical performance.

Keywords: intellectual capital, value added, financial performance, economical performance, stock market performance

Suggested Citation:

bonabi ghadim, rahim, Investigating the Effect of Value Added as an Intellectual Capital Index on the Performance of Corporation: Empirical Evidence from Companies Listed in Tehran Stock Exchange (June 20, 2014). Applied mathematics in Engineering, Management and Technology 72 (2014) 25253-25260 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3606488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
M Armstrong
Translated to Persian by Ghalichli, B. & Gholamzadeh, D. Published by Iran industrial research and teaching center Posted: 1385
M Armstrong
Managing Guidelines of human sources, article collections written by a number of famous advisors of Coppers and Lybrand management counseling international company. Translated to Persian by Ebili Posted: 1387
A Azar , M Momeni
Statistics and its application in management Posted: 1381
M Ahmadi , A Ramezan , M Arabi , A Moghaddam
Measuring the intellectual capital performance and studying its effective factors in Mahshahr petrochemical companies
Oil and energy journal , volume 1 , p. 39 - 50 Posted: 1390
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
317
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies