Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Ownership Concentration - Innovation Nexus: Evidence from SMEs around The World

Emerging Markets Finance and Trade

37 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2020 Last revised: 22 Nov 2021

Duc Nguyen Nguyen

Dalat University

Quynh-Nhu Tran

National Chiao Tung University

Quang-Thai Truong

University of Dalat; National Chiao Tung University

Date Written: May 20, 2020

Abstract

This study investigates whether ownership concentration improves or impedes firm innovation using a sample of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) spanning 95 countries worldwide. We find that higher ownership concentration is associated with a lower likelihood of introducing innovative activities. Further, results reveal that concentrated ownership has detrimental impacts on innovation for firms with a higher degree of asymmetric information and firms led by less experienced managers. We also show that the negative association between ownership concentration and innovation only exists for financially constrained firms (i.e. younger enterprises and SMEs with high financing obstacles) and those with the highly concentrated ownership structure. Lastly, evidence suggests that institutional development alleviates the negative impact of ownership concentration on innovation.

Keywords: Innovation, SMEs, Ownership concentration

JEL Classification: O31, G32

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Duc Nguyen and Tran, Quynh-Nhu and Truong, Quang-Thai, The Ownership Concentration - Innovation Nexus: Evidence from SMEs around The World (May 20, 2020). Emerging Markets Finance and Trade, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3606319 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3606319
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
V Acharya , Z Xu
Financial dependence and innovation: The case of public versus private firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 124 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 243 Posted: 2017
Z J Acs , D B Audretsch
Innovation in Large and Small Firms: An Empirical Analysis
The American Economic Review , volume 78 , issue 4 , p. 678 - 690 Posted: 1988
A Afuah
Innovation management Posted: 2003
P Aghion , A Bergeaud , M Lequien , M J Melitz
The impact of exports on innovation: Theory and evidence Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,284
RANK
427,290
1 Citations
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies