Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Firms’ Financial Performance: A New Insight

Sustainability, 12 (10), 2020

19 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2020

Faisal Mahmood

Lahore Business School

Faisal Qadeer

University of the Punjab, Lahore, Pakistan.

Antonio Ariza-Montes

Universidad Loyola Andalucía

Maria Saleem

Lahore Business School

Jaffar Aman

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 21, 2020

Abstract

A vast stream of literature has investigated the effect of corporate social responsibility (CSR) on ﬁrms’ ﬁnancial performance (FFP). However, this effect has remained unclear and undecided. For instance, numerous studies have examined the direct impact of ﬁrms’ CSR initiatives on FFP, as well as examining various mechanisms to explain this relationship, but found inconsistent results. The indecisive results indicate that researchers lack consensus to deﬁne a mechanism to understand how and under what conditions CSR can affect FFP. Thus, this research aims to investigate how ﬁrms’ CSR perception and disclosure derive accounting- (return on equity: ROE, earnings per share: EPS), market- (Tobin Q) and perception-based ﬁrms’ ﬁnancial performance through the mediation of competitive advantage and boundary conditions of family ownership and CEO narcissism. This research underpins the theoretical lens of the resource-based view to derive hypotheses. The research design employed in this study is quantitative, and the approach to theory development is deductive. Multi-method and multi-source data with temporal breaks are collected from 60 manufacturing ﬁrms listed on the Pakistan Stock Exchange (PSE). Primary data are collected from the top and middle managers, while secondary data are collected from the annual reports published by these ﬁrms. This research found that competitive advantage signiﬁcantly mediated the indirect impact of perceived CSR and disclosure on FFP. Further, this relationship is strengthened by the contingencies of family ownership and CEO narcissism. Our results will assist the management of the ﬁrms to understand the implications of CSR perceptions and disclosure to derive a competitive advantage that ultimately translates into the ﬁrms’ ﬁnancial performance. Further, this research also revealed that managers should concentrate on the boundary conditions of family ownership and CEO narcissism as well. In particular, this research contributes to understanding why CSR is viewed to have strategic importance for the ﬁrms and how a resource-based perspective might be utilized in such endeavors.

Keywords: CSR perception and disclosure; ﬁnancial performance; competitive advantage; family ownership; CEO narcissism

Suggested Citation:

Mahmood, Faisal and Qadeer, Faisal and Ariza-Montes, Antonio and Saleem, Maria and Aman, Jaffar, Corporate Social Responsibility and Firms’ Financial Performance: A New Insight (May 21, 2020). Sustainability, 12 (10), 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3607558
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
W Wang , Y Fu , H Qiu , J H Moore , Z Wang
Corporate social responsibility and employee outcomes: A moderated mediation model of organizational identification and moral identity
Front. Psychol , volume 8 Posted: 1906
Crossref
M Ashrafi , G M Magnan , M Adams , T R Walker
Understanding the Conceptual Evolutionary Path and Theoretical Underpinnings of Corporate Social Responsibility and Corporate Sustainability
Crossref
X Xie , Y Jia , X Meng , C Li
Corporate social responsibility, customer satisfaction, and financial performance: The moderating effect of the institutional environment in two transition economies
J. Clean , volume 150 , p. 26 - 39 Posted: 2017
Crossref
P Van Beurden , T Gössling
The worth of values-a literature review on the relation between corporate social and financial performance
J. Bus. Ethics , volume 82 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
936
RANK
456,571
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies