Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
European Banks’ Legal Provisions and Financial Crises: The Influence of Corporate Governance and Institutional Environment

Jorge Gallud Cano & Felix J.Lopez-Iturriaga & Oscar Lopez-De-Foronda Perez, 2020. "European Banks’ Legal Provisions and Financial Crises: The Influence of Corporate Governance and Institutional Environment," Czech Journal of Economics and Finance (Finance a uver), Charles University Prague, Faculty

24 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2020 Last revised: 17 Jun 2020

Jorge Gallud Cano

University of Valladolid - Department of Finance and Accounting

Félix J. López-Iturriaga

Universidad de Valladolid - Department of Finance and Accounting

Óscar López-de-Foronda

University of Burgos - Department of Economics

Date Written: May 21, 2020

Abstract

We study the legal provisions of 92 European systemic banks from 18 countries over the years 2008-2017. Since legal provisions may be viewed as a mechanism for disclosing information to capital markets, the creation of legal provisions is determined by the risk taken by the bank and the managerial incentives to disclose information. Our results show an initial negative relationship between managers’ discretionary investments and legal provisions, even when we control for risk taking. We also find that board of director independence has a moderating effect in order to guard against future lawsuits. Similarly, a better institutional framework amplifies the positive influence of the board of directors.

Keywords: legal provisions, risk, corporate governance, institutional framework, European banks

JEL Classification: G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Gallud Cano, Jorge and Lopez-Iturriaga, Felix Javier and Lopez de Foronda, Oscar, European Banks’ Legal Provisions and Financial Crises: The Influence of Corporate Governance and Institutional Environment (May 21, 2020). Jorge Gallud Cano & Felix J.Lopez-Iturriaga & Oscar Lopez-De-Foronda Perez, 2020. "European Banks’ Legal Provisions and Financial Crises: The Influence of Corporate Governance and Institutional Environment," Czech Journal of Economics and Finance (Finance a uver), Charles University Prague, Faculty , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3607230
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
V Acharya , H Naqvi
The Seeds of a Crisis: A Theory of Bank Liquidity and Risk Taking over the Business Cycle
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 106 , issue 2 , p. 349 - 366 Posted: 2012
Crossref
V V Acharya , Y Amihud , L Litov
Creditor Rights and Corporate Risk-Taking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 150 - 166 Posted: 2011
Crossref
T Adam , V K Goyal
The Investment Opportunity Set and its Proxy Variables , volume 31 , p. 41 - 63 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
961
RANK
609,870
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies