Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Informal Institutions and Managers’ Earnings Management Choices: Evidence from IFRS-Adopting Countries

Halabi, H., A. Alshehabi and I. Zakaria (2019), “The Impact of Informal Institutions on Managers’ Earnings Management Choices: Evidence from IFRS-Adopting Countries.” Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics 15 (3), 100162.

33 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2020

halabi Halabi

Swansea University

Ahmad Alshehabi

Canterbury Christ Church University

Idlan R. Zakaria

University of Birmingham - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: September 17, 2019

Abstract

This study is the first to develop reliable and valid measures that capture differences between countries in relation to their legal institutions (investor protection, enforcement quality and equity market development), and investigate the role of formal and informal institutions (religiosity and culture) in determining managers’ choices of earnings management methods. Using an ethical perspective, we find that managers tend to choose an earnings management strategy that meets the prevailing social norms of the environment where the firm is headquartered. Specifically, our analysis shows that firms domiciled in countries with strong religious adherence and high-power-distance cultures prefer to manage their earnings ‘upwards’ through real activities rather than accruals. Overall, our results suggest that social norms determine managers’ earnings management choices at least as strongly as legal norms do.

Keywords: institutions, earnings management, factor analysis, SEM, AMOS

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Halabi, halabi and Alshehabi, Ahmad and Zakaria, Idlan R., Informal Institutions and Managers’ Earnings Management Choices: Evidence from IFRS-Adopting Countries (September 17, 2019). Halabi, H., A. Alshehabi and I. Zakaria (2019), “The Impact of Informal Institutions on Managers’ Earnings Management Choices: Evidence from IFRS-Adopting Countries.” Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics 15 (3), 100162., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3607743
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
6 Citations
Ahmed Abdelnaby Diab
The Relationship Between Informality and the Formal Management Accounting and Control Process: A Case Study From Egypt
Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal, Volume 24, Issue 4, 2020 · 13 Pages · Posted: 30 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 139
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Pearpilai Jutasompakorn , Chu Yeong Lim , Tharindra Ranasinghe , Kevin Ow Yong
Impact of Basel III on the Discretion and Timeliness of Banks’ Loan Loss Provisions
Nanyang Business School Research Paper No. 21-03 · 54 Pages · Posted: 8 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 11 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 197
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sami Adwan , Alaa Alhaj Ismail , Ranko Jelic
Non-executive Employee Ownership and Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence from Europe
Forthcoming, Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting DOI: 10.1007/s11156-022-01058-8 · 39 Pages · Posted: 6 Apr 2022 · Last revised: 18 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 92
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dante Viana Jr. , Isabel Lourenço , Ervin L. Black
The Effect of IFRS Adoption on Accrual-based and Real Earnings Management: Emerging Markets’ Perspective
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies, Forthcoming · 43 Pages · Posted: 12 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 370
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
530
RANK
772,295
6 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies