Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Restricting Managers’ Discretion through GAAP Impact the Usefulness of Accounting Information in Debt Contracting?

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2020 Last revised: 22 Jan 2022

Lin Cheng

The University of Arizona - Eller College of Management

Jacob Jaggi

Washington State University - Department of Accounting

Spencer Young

The University of Oklahoma

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 10, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether restricting managers’ discretion through GAAP impacts the usefulness of accounting information in debt contracting. We find that under more restrictive standards, lenders make more non-GAAP modifications to GAAP-based performance measures, suggesting that restrictions of managers’ discretion reduce the usefulness of accounting information. We perform two additional analyses to enhance identification. First, in line-item-level analysis, we document a positive relation between the exclusion of specific nonrecurring items from contractual definitions of earnings and the number of restrictions in the GAAP standards that apply to each specific item each year. Second, using difference-in-differences tests around standard changes, we find that the propensity to exclude items varies positively with changes in the restrictiveness of related standards. Moreover, we find that restrictive standards are also positively associated with loan spreads but significantly less so when lenders adjust GAAP numbers in loan contracts. Overall, this study improves our understanding of how attributes of accounting standards impact the usefulness of accounting information.

Keywords: Accounting standards, managerial discretion, loan contracting, non-GAAP modifications

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Lin and Jaggi, Jacob and Young, Spencer, Does Restricting Managers’ Discretion through GAAP Impact the Usefulness of Accounting Information in Debt Contracting? (January 10, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3607165 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3607165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
D Afanasieva
Global equity issuance up from 2016 slump, bankers see further rise
Reuters Posted: 2017
C P Agoglia , T S Doupnik , G T Tsakumis
Principles-based versus rules-based accounting standards: The influence of standard precision and audit committee strength on financial reporting decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
R W Anderson , S Sundaresan
Design and valuation of debt contracts
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 68 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,285
RANK
291,202
3 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies