Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Institutional Investors in Post-Earnings Announcement Drift: Evidence from China

Accounting & Business Research, 2020

56 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2020

Guilong Cai

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU)

Bingxuan Lin

University of Rhode Island

Mingahai Wei

Sun Yat-sen University; Sun Yat-sen University

Xiaowei Xu

University of Rhode Island

Date Written: May 21, 2020

Abstract

We examine how institutional investors influence post-earnings announcement drift (PEAD) in China. Our findings suggest that institutional holdings are positively correlated with PEAD in China, especially when institutional investors herd strongly on earnings news. This positive relationship is more salient for institutional investors with shorter investment horizons and in firms with higher information opacity. We also find that stock prices reverse in the fourth quarter after the earnings announcement. In contrast to the well-established view that institutional investors exploit PEAD and accelerate the speed of information incorporation, our findings suggest that they may instead exacerbate PEAD and slow down price discovery in emerging markets with different institutional backgrounds.

Keywords: Post Earnings Announcement Drift; Institutional Investors; China; Herding

Suggested Citation:

Cai, Guilong and Lin, Bingxuan and Wei, Mingahai and Wei, Mingahai and Xu, Xiaowei, The Role of Institutional Investors in Post-Earnings Announcement Drift: Evidence from China (May 21, 2020). Accounting & Business Research, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3607045 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3607045
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
M Petersen
Estimating standard errors in finance panel data sets: Comparing approaches
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 435 - 480 Posted: 2009
Crossref
F K Reilly
Institutions on trial: Not guilty
Journal of Portfolio Management , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 5 - 10 Posted: 1977
R Sadka
Momentum and post-earnings-announcement drift anomalies: The role of liquidity risk
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 309 - 349 Posted: 2006
Crossref
D S Scharfstein , J C Stein
Herd behaviour and investment
American Economic Review , volume 80 , issue 3 , p. 465 - 479 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,060
RANK
564,093
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies