Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
In the Eyes of the Beholder: Experimental Evidence on the Contested Nature of Materiality in Sustainability Reporting

Organization & Environment, Vol 33, Issue 4, 2020, https://doi.org/10.1177/1086026619875436

Posted: 15 Nov 2020

Daniel Reimsbach

Nijmegen School of Management Radboud University

Frank Schiemann

University of Bamberg

Rüdiger Hahn

Heinrich Heine University Dusseldorf

Eric Schmiedchen

University of Hamburg

Date Written: September 18, 2019

Abstract

Materiality is an ambiguous concept in sustainability reporting where potential users are more heterogeneous than in financial reporting. Building on decision usefulness and dual process theory, we scrutinize in an experimental setting how two important stakeholder groups react to manipulations of the topic of nonfinancial information while controlling for differences in nonfinancial performance. We find that potential employees consider nonfinancial information as generally more material compared with capital market participants. Furthermore, for capital market participants, the nonfinancial topic of energy is more material than the topic of biodiversity, while for potential employees, both topics are equally material. Capital market participants seem to follow a more analytic decision-making process than potential employees. Capital market participants also adjust their decisions in combination with quantitative performance differences, and their risk assessment of a company mediates their decisions. Our findings show that materiality of nonfinancial information lies in the eye of the beholder.

Keywords: materiality, nonfinancial disclosure, sustainability reporting, stakeholder, experiment

Suggested Citation:

Reimsbach, Daniel and Schiemann, Frank and Hahn, Rüdiger and Schmiedchen, Eric, In the Eyes of the Beholder: Experimental Evidence on the Contested Nature of Materiality in Sustainability Reporting (September 18, 2019). Organization & Environment, Vol 33, Issue 4, 2020, https://doi.org/10.1177/1086026619875436, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3607805
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
810
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies