Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Exploratory Analysis of Auditors’ Perceptions of the Firms’ Tone at the Top

65 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2020 Last revised: 14 Aug 2020

Veena L Brown

University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee

Christine E. Earley

Providence College -School of Business

Kerri-Ann Sanderson

Bentley University

Date Written: May 22, 2020

Abstract

This study examines public accounting firms’ “tone at the top” with respect to audit quality initiatives from the perspectives of both firm leaders (those who set the tone) and engagement level auditors (non-leaders). Specifically, we

(1) solicit the perceptions of audit firm culture and leadership from the perspectives of audit personnel at the partner and non-partner levels,

(2) assess how firm leaders communicate tone at the top through formal and informal communications,

(3) examine the firm work environment and its relation to perceived tone at the top.

We interviewed audit partners and auditors below partner rank to address our research questions. Participants were from regional and local public accounting firms that audit primarily non-public entities (although some of the firms are also registered with the PCAOB). Results indicate that although most firms characterize their tone as being strongly employee- or team-focused, the way firm leaders communicate with and support employees varies across firms. In addition, firms focus on innovation or other values, such as superior client service. Our results have implications for firms, regulators and academics interested in examining the link between tone at the top and audit quality.

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Veena L and Earley, Christine E. and Sanderson, Kerri-Ann, An Exploratory Analysis of Auditors’ Perceptions of the Firms’ Tone at the Top (May 22, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3608450 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3608450
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
L M Andiola , D H Downey , K D Westermann
Literature Review of Audit Firm Climate and Culture: Implications for Research and Practice Posted: 2019
E D Almer , S E Kaplan
The Effects of Flexible Work Arrangements on Stressors, Burnout, and Behavioral Job Outcomes in Public Accounting , volume 14 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Enhancing Audit Quality: A Six Point Plan to Improve Audits Posted: 2014
AICPA). 2019. A Firm's System of Quality Control
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
350
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,018
RANK
195,765
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies