Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Social Media in Corporate Governance

The Accounting Review, forthcoming

HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2020-003 (also appears in Emerging Finance and Financial Practices eJournal)

57 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2020 Last revised: 11 Jun 2021

James S. Ang

Florida State University; Florida State University - College of Law

Charles Hsu

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Di Tang

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Chaopeng Wu

Xiamen University - School of Management

Date Written: February 20, 2020

Abstract

We examine whether social media criticisms posted by small investors can predict subsequent firm acquisition decisions. Specifically, we use textual analysis to examine the Internet stock message board postings of 303 value-reducing acquisition attempts. Our empirical evidence shows that small investors’ negative postings are able to predict a potential acquirer’s subsequent decision to withdraw its attempt. We further find that this predictive ability increases with the information quality of postings, and that the predictive information extracted from social media is incremental to that captured by proposal announcement returns, conventional media coverage, analyst reports, and institutional investors’ responses related to the proposed acquisition. Finally, we show that message board criticisms are also able to predict governance outcomes beyond acquisition decisions. Overall, our results are consistent with the notion that social media play a role in corporate governance by gathering crowd wisdom and uncovering additional value-relevant information.

Keywords: social media, corporate governance, acquisitions, wisdom of crowds

JEL Classification: G34, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ang, James S. and Hsu, Charles and Tang, Di and Wu, Chaopeng, The Role of Social Media in Corporate Governance (February 20, 2020). The Accounting Review, forthcoming, HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2020-003 (also appears in Emerging Finance and Financial Practices eJournal), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3609720
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,554
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,261
RANK
12,522
29 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies