Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Performance in China

Risk Governance & Control: Financial Markets & Institutions, 2019

8 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2020

Jahidur Md Rahman

Wenzhou-Kean University

Fang Yu

Wenzhou-Kean University

Date Written: November 29, 2019

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to investigate the relationship between corporate social responsibility and firm performance in China. We have used the sample of A-share listed firms from Shenzhen and Shanghai Stock Exchange for the period 2011 to 2017. We used pooled ordinary least squares (OLS) regression as a baseline methodology. We find that corporate social responsibility has a significantly positive effect on firm performance in China. Our results suggest that Chinese companies having better financial performance undertake more CSR reporting. This paper contributes to the existing literature by investigating the effect of firm performance on CSR reporting of Chinese listed companies.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Firm Performance, Return on Assets, China

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Jahidur Md and Yu, Fang, The Relationship between Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Performance in China (November 29, 2019). Risk Governance & Control: Financial Markets & Institutions, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3610566
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
J B Barney
Firm resources and sustained competitive advantage
Journal of Management , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 120 Posted: 1991
Crossref
S L Berman , A C Wicks , S Kotha , T M Jones
Does stakeholder orientation matter? The relationship between stakeholder management models and firm financial performance
Academy of Management Journal , volume 42 , issue 5 , p. 488 - 506 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Y Chaisena , P Ussahawanitchakit
Corporate social responsibility and firm sustainability: An empirical investigation of ISO 14000 business in Thailand
The Business & Management Review , volume 7 , issue 5 Posted: 2016
U K Chakraborty
Developments in the concept of corporate social responsibility (CSR). The Researchers
International Research Journal , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 23 - 45 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,161
RANK
240,980
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies