Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Revival of Large Consulting Practices at the Big 4 and Audit Quality

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aos.2020.101157

Posted: 19 Jun 2020 Last revised: 4 Sep 2020

Dain C. Donelson

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Matthew Ege

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Andy Imdieke

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Eldar Maksymov

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 2, 2020

Abstract

The Big 4 have acquired numerous consulting firms since the late 2000s, and regulators are concerned that a focus on consulting practices could negatively affect audit quality through audit firm culture. Audit firms counter by arguing that expertise gained through consulting can improve knowledge brought to audits. Using a difference-in-differences design, restatements as an audit quality proxy, and enterprise resource planning- (non-enterprise resource planning-) related acquisitions as a proxy for audit- (non-audit-) related acquisitions, we find nuanced support for both positions, depending on acquisition type. Audit quality increases (decreases) at the local office level after the acquisition of consulting firms that provide services that relate (do not relate) to the audit. Semi-structured interviews of 17 highly-experienced audit practitioners suggest that consulting firm acquisitions positively (negatively) affect audit quality through expertise transfer (shifting the culture towards commercialism) when acquisitions are (are not) audit-related. Thus, the effect of consulting firm acquisitions on audit quality appears to depend on how closely the acquired services are related to the audit.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Consulting, PCAOB, Non-Audit Services

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Donelson, Dain C. and Ege, Matthew and Imdieke, Andrew and Maksymov, Eldar M., The Revival of Large Consulting Practices at the Big 4 and Audit Quality (June 2, 2020). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aos.2020.101157, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3611010 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3611010
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,993
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies