Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Internal Corporate Social Responsibility Toward Turnover Intention With Mediating and Moderating Effects

International Conference on Business, Accounting, Finance, and Economics (BAFE 2015)

13 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2020

Mei Peng Low

Tunku Abdul Rahman University (UTAR) - Faculty of Accountancy and Management

Date Written: October 9, 2015

Abstract

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has gained its attention and popularity since the last decade. CSR initiated as a topic of charitable giving in the 1980s Thereon, many CSR debates arise which were shaped by trends and fundamental changes of the political, social, and economic spheres of life. Today, CSR has evolved into a business concept that had been accepted widely. Its development has shifted the approach from focusing on the shareholders to stakeholders due to the acknowledgement of the crucial roles of stakeholders in every organisation. In this regards, the present study aims to examine the relationship between internal CSR practices and employees’ turnover intention. This study hypothesized that there are possible mediating and moderating effects of organisational commitment and perceived ease of movement in this relationship. This study took place in the Small Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs) as SMEs are regarded as the backbone of Malaysia economy. The results revealed that internal CSR practices has a significant negative effect on turnover intention. Internal CSR practices also found to have a significant positive effect on Organisational commitment. A significant negative relationship was found between Organisational commitment and turnover intention. Organisational commitment mediates the relationship between internal CSR practices and turnover intention. However, the moderating effect of perceived ease of movement is insignificant. The results obtained will provide some pointers to the SMEs owners/ managers to capitalize internal CSR practices to retain their valuable workforce.

Keywords: Internal Corporate Social Responsibility, Turnover Intention, Employees, SMEs

Suggested Citation:

Low, Mei Peng, The Impact of Internal Corporate Social Responsibility Toward Turnover Intention With Mediating and Moderating Effects (October 9, 2015). International Conference on Business, Accounting, Finance, and Economics (BAFE 2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3611546 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3611546
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
R Aguilera , V Ruth , D Rupp , C Williams , J Ganapathi
Putting the S back in Corporate Social Responsibility: A multi-level theory of social change in organizations
Academy of management Review , volume 32 , p. 836 - 863 Posted: 2007
Crossref
H Aguinis , A Glavas
What corporate environmental sustainability can do for industrialorgansational psychology
Green organizations: Driving change with I-O psychology , p. 379 - 392 Posted: 2013
N J Allen , J P Meyer
The measurement and antecedents of affective, continuance and normative commitment to the organization
Journal of Occupational Psychology , volume 63 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 1990
Crossref
J C Anderson , D W Gerbing
Structural equation modeling in practice; A review and recommended twostep approach
Psycho Bulletin , volume 103 , issue 3 , p. 411 - 423 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
620
RANK
702,914
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies