Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Manifestation of Internal Corporate Social Responsibility on Employee’s Behaviour in Small Medium Sized Enterprises

Journal of Social Science Studies, 2015

Posted: 22 Jun 2020

Mei Peng Low

Tunku Abdul Rahman University (UTAR) - Faculty of Accountancy and Management

Date Written: May 22, 2015

Abstract

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has gained increasing attention and popularity since the last decade. There are many CSR debates arise since then. These debates were shaped by trends and fundamental changes of the political, social, and economic spheres of life. Tracing back, the precursor to CSR was topic of charitable giving, which had been in existence since 1980s. Todate, CSR has evolved to a business concept that had been accepted widely. Business corporations are focusing on CSR due to tremendous pressures from society. Presently, CSR approach has emerged from focusing on the shareholders to stakeholders due to the acknowledgement of the crucial roles of stakeholders in every organisation.

Stakeholder management and CSR is a relational affair. Stakeholder theory involves a list of critical stakeholders namely employees, suppliers, customers, media, local communities, NGOs, that could be a source of new competitive advantage. This presents a research agenda to look into internal CSR practices as to how it manifests among the crucial stakeholders of every organisation, i.e. the employees, on their attitudes and behaviours. As Small Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs) are gaining its foothold in Malaysia, they also encountered many challenges, one of these is the issue of high employee turnover that lead to substantial costs to the organisations. The findings reveal that internal CSR practices enhanced employee’s job satisfaction and also resulted in the reduction of employee’s turnover intention. It was interesting to discover that internal CSR practices enhance employee’s organisational commitment like job satisfaction, but it failed to reduce employee’s turnover intention through enhanced organisation commitment as a result of internal CSR practices. The results also show that perceived ease of movement has an impact on employee’s turnover intention.

Keywords: Employees, Internal CSR, Job satisfaction, Organisational commitment, Turnover intention, Perceived ease of movement

Suggested Citation:

Low, Mei Peng, The Manifestation of Internal Corporate Social Responsibility on Employee’s Behaviour in Small Medium Sized Enterprises (May 22, 2015). Journal of Social Science Studies, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3611677
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
466
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies