Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Reporting: A Comparative Study of Cement Companies in India

Tailor, R. K., & Modi, R. K. (2017). Corporate social reporting: a comparative study of cement companies in India. Indian journal of accounting, 49(2), 89-97.

9 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2020

R K Tailor

Manipal University Jaipur, Jaipur

R K MODI

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 30, 2017

Abstract

Corporate Social Responsibility can be defined as the set of policies, activities, or behavior undertaken by an organization that goes beyond the traditional economic and legal obligations that the firm has towards its internal and external stakeholders.” The society is questioning the existence of business houses, especially in the wake of the scandals and scams In response to it, the organizations around the globe are forced to wake up to the need for being committed towards Corporate Social Responsibility. Over the years this concept of Corporate Social Responsibility has gained unprecedented momentum in business and public debate and has become a strategic issue crossing the departmental boundaries, and affecting the way in which a company does business. In this paper, a study has been conducted in the selected cement companies to find out the CSR for the requisites.

Keywords: External Stakeholders, Corporate Social Responsibility, Human Civilization, Business Policy

JEL Classification: M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Tailor, R K and MODI, R K, Corporate Social Reporting: A Comparative Study of Cement Companies in India (June 30, 2017). Tailor, R. K., & Modi, R. K. (2017). Corporate social reporting: a comparative study of cement companies in India. Indian journal of accounting, 49(2), 89-97., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3611847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
R N Anthony
Performance Appraisal: A Comparative Study of Cement Companies in India
Management Accounting Text and Cases , p. 120 - 126 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
744
RANK
541,838
1 Citations
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies