Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Cooperative Compliance on Firms’ Tax Risk, Tax Risk Management and Compliance Costs

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2020-07

57 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2020 Last revised: 19 Jan 2021

Eva Eberhartinger

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Maximilian Zieser

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: January 1, 2021

Abstract

In cooperative compliance programs, firms and tax administrations agree on cooperation instead of confrontation. Firms provide full transparency and advanced tax control frameworks. Tax administrations, in turn, offer certainty as to the tax treatment of complex transactions. In this study, we test how firms’ perceptions of tax risk, the quality of tax risk management, and compliance costs are related to cooperative compliance. To our knowledge, this is the first study that attempts to analyze both reasons for and consequences of participation in cooperative compliance programs. We examine the Austrian cooperative compliance pilot project known as horizontal monitoring that was aimed at large businesses and launched in 2011. We use survey data from representatives of firms participating in the pilot project and a sample of comparable firms under a traditional ex-post audit regime. We conduct group comparisons to test differences between these groups, as well as mediation analyses to shed light on more complex relationships between variables. Results show that horizontal monitoring firms perceive a significantly higher increase in tax certainty, which is associated with significant relative decreases in tax risk and compliance costs. Furthermore, while the quality of tax risk management upon entering the pilot project appears significantly higher for horizontal monitoring firms, they do not report greater improvement in tax risk management compared to the control group. These results are relevant for the development of cooperative compliance programs and the decision to participate in them.

Keywords: Tax Risk, Tax Certainty, Risk Management, Cooperative Compliance, Compliance Costs, Horizontal Monitoring

JEL Classification: G32, H21, H25, H83

Suggested Citation:

Eberhartinger, Eva and Zieser, Maximilian, The Effects of Cooperative Compliance on Firms’ Tax Risk, Tax Risk Management and Compliance Costs (January 1, 2021). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2020-07, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3612959 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3612959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Paul J Beck , Petro Lisowsky
Tax Uncertainty and Voluntary Real-Time Tax Audits
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 3 , p. 867 - 901 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Belastingdienst
Posted: 2017-03
Rongili Biswas , Carla Marchese , Fabio Privileggi
Firm's Tax Evasion in a Principal-Agent Model with Self-Protection
Journal of Economics , volume 110 , issue 2 , p. 125 - 140 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Björklund Larsen , Karen Lotta , Benedicte Boll , Jaana Brögger , Tuulia Kettunen , Jukka Potka-Soininen , Mette Pellinen , Kiran Brehm Johansen , Aziz
Nordic Experiences of Co-Operative Compliance Programmes: Comparisons and Recommendations
FairTax Working Paper Series Posted: 2018-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
423
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,325
RANK
158,514
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies