Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does an Audit Partner’s Perceived Technical Expertise and Objectivity Impact the Audit Partner Selection Process? Experimental Evidence on Managers’ Recommendations

46 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2020 Last revised: 27 Jan 2022

Lori Shefchik Bhaskar

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Melissa Carlisle

Case Western Reserve University

Candice Hux

Northern Illinois University

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 17, 2021

Abstract

We conduct a 2×2×2 experiment with 200 accounting and finance executives and managers to examine managers’ audit partner selection recommendations. Specifically, we examine the three key dimensions of source credibility: expertise, bias, and the evaluator’s point of view, by manipulating the audit partner’s prior Big 4 firm experience (present or absent), social ties with the manager (present or absent), and the company’s audit quality convention (a “model audit” that focuses on technical expertise or a “value-added audit” that has a neutral view). Consistent with source credibility theory, we predict and find prior Big 4 experience increases and social ties decreases managers’ recommendations. Moreover, we focus on managers’ recommendations when both perceived expertise and potential for bias are present. Under a value-added audit convention, we find managers’ recommendations are influenced more by the presence of social ties, such that the positive effect of prior Big 4 firm experience is diminished. Whereas, under the model audit convention, we find managers’ recommendations are influenced more by the presence of prior Big 4 firm experience, such that the negative effect of social ties is diminished. Our study provides evidence on the important tradeoff of auditor competence versus objectivity, two central inputs to audit quality, and raises concerns that a company’s focus on a model audit may unintentionally blind managers from adequately integrating objectivity concerns when evaluating potential audit partners.

Keywords: audit partner selection; audit quality conventions; Big 4 experience; objectivity; social ties; technical expertise

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Bhaskar, Lori Shefchik and Carlisle, Melissa and Hux, Candice and Zimmerman, Aleksandra, How Does an Audit Partner’s Perceived Technical Expertise and Objectivity Impact the Audit Partner Selection Process? Experimental Evidence on Managers’ Recommendations (December 17, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3612296 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3612296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,744
RANK
266,546
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies