Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Performance and Sustainability in Malaysian Waqf Private Entities and Corporations

International Journal of Advanced Sciences and Technology, 29(10s), 951-961

11 Pages Posted: 18 May 2021

Mustafa Hanefah

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM) - Faculty of Economics and Muamalat

Muhammad Iqmal Hisham Kamaruddin

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM)

Rosnia Masruki

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia

Fuadah Johari

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM)

Aimi Fadzirul Kamarubahrin

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM)

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

This paper aims to examine the financial performance and sustainability in Malaysian waqf private entity and corporations. Examining its performance and sustainability may be useful for determining perpetual life of waqf. Besides that, a waqf private entity and corporations frequently compare actual performance with standards or expectations to enhance the organizations’ achievements. Thus, by using ratio analysis, this study examines five years (2014-2018) annual reports of waqf private entity administered by Pusat Wakaf Majlis Agama Islam Wilayah Persekutuan Sdn. Bhd (PWMSB) and two waqf corporations Pusat Wakaf Selangor (PWS) and Wakaf An-Nur Corporation (WANCorp). The outcomes show that only one waqf corporation was economically feasible and perform acording to seven item. The discoveries give helpful experiences into the economically feasible and performance of waqf private entity and corporations feature the requirement for policy makers all over the Muslim countries generally and specifically for Malaysia to focus on the all encompassing responsibility of waqf foundations to guarantee waqf's efficient recovery. It is trusted that the outcomes and the suggestions of the examination would empower the money related announcing and responsibility of such foundations at a more significant level.

Keywords: Financial, Performance, Sustainability, Waqf, Private Entity, Corporations

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hanefah, Mustafa and Kamaruddin, Muhammad Iqmal Hisham and Masruki, Rosnia and Johari, Fuadah and Kamarubahrin, Aimi Fadzirul, Financial Performance and Sustainability in Malaysian Waqf Private Entities and Corporations (2020). International Journal of Advanced Sciences and Technology, 29(10s), 951-961, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3612462
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Abdul Rahman , A R Bakar , M D Ismail , Y
Current Practices and Administration of Waqf in Malaysia: A Preliminary Study Posted: 1999
A Abraham
Financial Management in the Nonprofit Sector: A Mission-Based Approach to Ratio Analysis in Membership Organizations
Journal of American Academy of Business Cambridge , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 212 - 217 Posted: 2006
M Ariff
Resource Mobilization through the Islamic Voluntary Sector in Southeast Asia
The Islamic Voluntary Sector in South-East Asia , p. 31 - 49 Posted: 1991
R Arshad , N Mohd Zain
Performance Measurement and Accountability of WAQF Institutions in Malaysia
SHS Web of Conferences , volume 36 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
416
RANK
653,768
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies