Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and Convergence in Corporate Governance: Doctrinal or Economic Path Dependence?

Research Handbook on Comparative Corporate Governance (Afra Afsharipour & Martin Gelter eds., Edward Elgar Publishing, Forthcoming)

Fordham Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 3613684

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 524/2020

41 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2020 Last revised: 4 Jun 2020

Martin Gelter

Fordham University School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: May 29, 2020

Abstract

Convergence in corporate governance has been debated for more than 20 years. This paper seeks to explain convergence – and the lack thereof – in accounting laws and standards, within the context of this debate. One could argue about whether accounting has undergone international convergence. One the one hand, the two major accounting systems, IFRS and US GAAP, share the same goal of providing timely and useful information to investors. On the other hand, differences between the two sets of standards remain, and the SEC still does not permit domestic issuers to use IFRS. Moreover, while EU publicly-traded firms are required to use IFRS for their consolidated financial statements, many Member States, continue to require or permit the use of domestic accounting standards for private firms and for entity-level accounting.

This paper seeks to explain this persistent divergence with path dependence. Path dependence is often driven by interest groups. However, there is also the possibility of doctrinal path dependence, which can be explained with the difficulty of making fundamental changes given that legal professionals aim for certain and seek to preserve the value of their specialized human capital. A major factor in accounting reform are the interests of accounting professionals, particularly in large international firms (the “Big 4”). Divergence may in part be because the interests of this key constituency differ between the US and Continental European countries. In Europe, the internationalization of accounting has generally been favored by large firms because of the possibility of increasing their market share at the expense of purely domestic firms. This explains the compromise implemented in the Member state options of the IFRS Regulation. By contrast, the US already had a fully developed set of accounting standards focused on capital markets when IFRS became an option, which means there were no rents to capture for large firms as a result of changes in the audit market. In addition, a key feature of US corporate governance distinguishes it from other systems, including the UK, namely the prevalence of investor litigation. Consequently, a rules-based system serves the interest of the accounting profession better than the arguably more standards-based IFRS.

Keywords: IFRS, IASB, GAAP, SEC, international accounting, EU Company Law Directives, comparative corporate governance

JEL Classification: K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gelter, Martin, Accounting and Convergence in Corporate Governance: Doctrinal or Economic Path Dependence? (May 29, 2020). Research Handbook on Comparative Corporate Governance (Afra Afsharipour & Martin Gelter eds., Edward Elgar Publishing, Forthcoming), Fordham Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 3613684, European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 524/2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3613684 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3613684
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
E G , Erik Berglöf
A Note on the Typology of Financial Systems
COMPARATIVE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE , volume 151 , p. 159 - 64 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Alan Dignam &amp; Michael Galanis , The Globalization , Corporate
GOVERNANCE , volume 64 Posted: 2009
Christian Leuz
Different Approaches to Corporate Reporting Regulation: How Jurisdictions Differ and Why
Chicago Booth Initiative on Global Markets Research Paper No. 53, ECGI - Law Working Paper No. 156/2010 Pages: 68 Posted: 30 Mar 2010 Last revised: 8 Apr 2024
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
E G , Marco Becht &amp; Alisa Roëll
Blockholdings in Europe: An International Comparison
EUR. ECON. REV Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
242
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,756
RANK
288,800
1 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fordham Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies