Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Director Networks and Initial Public Offerings

Journal of Banking and Finance, Vol. 106, 2019

65 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2020

Yi Feng

Ryerson University - Ted Rogers School of Management

Keke Song

Melbourne Business School, the University of Melbourne

Yisong S. Tian

York University - Schulich School of Business

Date Written: May 28, 2019

Abstract

We investigate how director networks impact IPO characteristics and find that firms with better-connected directors have higher IPO market valuation, more positive offer price revisions, higher first-day returns, more pre-IPO media coverage, and superior post-IPO stock performance. Director networks are beneficial to the share offering because corporate directors help facilitate information exchange with prospective investors, attract their attention to the IPO, and maintain and grow their interest after the IPO.

Keywords: Director networks, Network centrality, IPO underpricing, Offer price revision, IPO valuation, Investor attention, Pre-IPO media coverage, Post-IPO stock performance

JEL Classification: G3, G30, G32, G34, L14

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Yi and Song, Keke and Tian, Yisong Sam, Director Networks and Initial Public Offerings (May 28, 2019). Journal of Banking and Finance, Vol. 106, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3613786
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
F Akbas , F Meschke , M B Wintoki
Director networks and informed traders
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2016
Crossref
James S. Ang , Gregory Leo Nagel , Jun Yang
The Effect of Social Pressures on CEO Compensation
Pages: 33 Posted: 25 Mar 2008 Last revised: 12 May 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
D M Autore , O Faleye , T Kovacs
The impact of CEO connections for equity issuing firms Posted: 2016
E Bajo , T J Chemmanur , K Simonyan , H Tehranian
Underwriter networks, investor attention, and initial public offerings
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 122 , p. 376 - 408 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,096
RANK
692,403
5 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies