Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credit Default Swaps and Non-GAAP Earnings Disclosure

47 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2020

Dirk E. Black

Iowa State University - College of Business

Kalin S. Kolev

City University of New York (CUNY) - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

Binghao (Jimmy) Zhao

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 29, 2020

Abstract

We examine the effect of credit default swap (CDS) coverage on voluntary disclosure using firm provided non-GAAP earnings as a laboratory. For a large sample of U.S. firms, we find that for companies with CDS coverage, the persistence of non-GAAP exclusions is lower, implying higher disclosure quality. The effect manifests across a range of performance measures and measurement windows and is strongest among non-investment-grade firms, entities for which monitors are more likely to rely on public accounting reports. This improvement in quality comes as a counterpoint to a decrease in the frequency of non-GAAP disclosure among firms that experience CDS coverage initiation. Collectively, our findings suggest firms counteract the perceived negative externalities associated with CDS coverage with higher-quality voluntary disclosure.

Keywords: Non-GAAP earnings, Non-GAAP exclusions, Credit default swaps, Voluntary disclosure quality

JEL Classification: G14, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Black, Dirk E. and Kolev, Kalin S. and Zhao, Binghao (Jimmy), Credit Default Swaps and Non-GAAP Earnings Disclosure (May 29, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3614753 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3614753
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,665
RANK
331,544
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies