Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Accounting Expertise of Board Committees on the Short- and Long-term Consequences of Financial Restatements

Das, S., J. Gong, and S. Li. 2020. Accounting expertise of board committees and the consequences of financial restatements. Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming.

50 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2020

Somnath Das

University of Illinois at Chicago

James Jianxin Gong

California State University at Fullerton

Siyi Li

California State University, Fullerton - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 29, 2020

Abstract

Using financial restatements as the contextual setting, we examine whether the accounting expertise of board committees affects the consequences of financial reporting quality. We analyze both short-term consequences—stock market reactions surrounding restatement announcements, and long-term consequences—the incidence of SEC Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Actions (AAERs), and CEO and CFO turnover after restatements. Our results show that the presence of audit committee members with accounting expertise moderates the consequences of restatements, resulting in less negative stock market reactions and a lower probability of CEO turnover. In contrast, the audit committee’s non-accounting financial expertise increases the likelihood of AAERs. For the compensation committee, we find that accounting expertise reduces the probability of CEO turnover, while non-accounting financial expertise exacerbates the negative stock returns around restatement announcements and increases the probability of AAER. In the post Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOX) period, restatements have resulted in less severe consequences while companies have increased their propensity to hire accounting experts. on the board. Correspondingly, we document that the moderating effects of accounting expertise become less significant, in part because the moderating effects are offset by the changed investor expectations. Overall, our results suggest that accounting expertise of board committees helps mitigate the negative consequences of restatements.

Suggested Citation:

Das, Somnath and Gong, Jianxin and Li, Siyi, The Effects of Accounting Expertise of Board Committees on the Short- and Long-term Consequences of Financial Restatements (May 29, 2020). Das, S., J. Gong, and S. Li. 2020. Accounting expertise of board committees and the consequences of financial restatements. Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3614088 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3614088
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework & survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
B A Badertscher , J J Burks
Accounting Restatements and the Timeliness of Disclosures
Accounting Horizons , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 609 - 629 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M S Beasley , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , T L Neal
Fraudulent financial reporting 1998-2007: An analysis of U.S. public companies
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,199
RANK
527,931
3 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies