Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Board Committees and Corporate Outcomes: An International Systematic Literature Review and Agenda for Future Research

International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming

91 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2020

Mohammed A. Alhossini

Shaqra University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Alaa Zalata

University of Southampton - Southampton Business School

Date Written: May 30, 2020

Abstract

This paper comprehensively reviews the current body of international accounting literature regarding advisory/monitoring committees and corporate outcomes. Specifically, it synthesizes, appraises and extends current knowledge on the

(i) theoretical (i.e., economic, accounting/corporate governance, sociological and socio-psychological) perspectives and

(ii) empirical evidence of the observable and less visible attributes at both the individual and committee levels and their link with a wide range (financial/non-financial) of corporate outcomes.

Using the systematic literature review method, 304 articles from 59 journals in the fields of accounting and finance that were published between January 1992 and December 2018 are reviewed. The main findings are as follows. First and theoretically, agency theory is the most dominant applied theory/studies with no application of theory at all (descriptive), whilst the application of integrated theoretical frameworks is lacking in the reviewed articles. Second, the existing empirical evidence focuses excessively on:

(i) monitoring instead of advisory committees and

(ii) observable rather than less visible committee attributes.

Third, scarcity of cross- country studies along with methodological limitations relating to measurement inconsistencies, insufficiency of variables, and dominance of quantitative studies, among others, are identified. Finally, promising future research avenues are outlined.

Keywords: Accounting, Corporate Board Sub-Committees, Corporate Governance, Corporate Outcomes, Advisory and Monitoring Roles

JEL Classification: G3, M12, M14, M4, O32

Suggested Citation:

Alhossini, Mohammed A. and Ntim, Collins G. and Zalata, Alaa, Corporate Board Committees and Corporate Outcomes: An International Systematic Literature Review and Agenda for Future Research (May 30, 2020). International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3614878 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3614878
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
367 References
L J Abbott , S Parker
Auditor selection and audit committee characteristics
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2000
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Serving two masters: The association between audit committee internal audit oversight and internal audit activities. Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2010
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
An empirical investigation of audit fees, nonaudit fees, and audit committees
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 215 - 234 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
518
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,094
RANK
124,202
11 Citations
367 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies