Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do high-ability managers choose ESG projects that create shareholder value? Evidence from employee opinions

Forthcoming, Review of Accounting Studies

43 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2020 Last revised: 22 Jun 2022

Kyle Welch

George Washington University; George Washington University - Department of Accountancy

Aaron Yoon

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

Date Written: June 2, 2020

Abstract

Firm managers are facing increasing external pressure to allocate firm resources to environmental, social, and governance (ESG) efforts. Given that ESG activities are frequently perceived as in opposition to shareholder value, however, managers may find it difficult to decide which projects they should select and how much they should invest. Using MSCI ESG Ratings and Glassdoor employee ratings of senior managers as signals for firm ESG efforts and high managerial ability, we find evidence that high-ability managers allocate resources to ESG in a way that enhances shareholder value. Specifically, we implement a calendar-time portfolio regression design and find that firms with highly rated managers and high ESG exhibit significantly higher future stock returns than firms with low ratings on both. The results are robust to using different fixed effect structures as well as controlling for more covariates in a panel regression. Overall the results highlight the importance of senior managers in allocating resources to ESG efforts.

Keywords: Leaders; Senior Managers; Sustainability; ESG; CSR; Investment Performance

Suggested Citation:

Welch, Kyle and Yoon, Aaron, Do high-ability managers choose ESG projects that create shareholder value? Evidence from employee opinions (June 2, 2020). Forthcoming, Review of Accounting Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3616486 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3616486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
F Berg , J F Koelbel , R Rigobon
Aggregate confusion: The divergence of ESG ratings
MIT Sloan School of Management. Forthcoming at Review of Finance Posted: 2022
M Bertrand , A Schoar
Managing with style: The effect of managers on firm policies
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 4 , p. 1169 - 1208 Posted: 2003
Blackrock
Business Roundtable redefines the purpose of a corporation to promote "An economy that serves all Americans
Stewardship Priorities for Engaging with Public Companies , volume 52 , p. 57 - 82 Posted: 1997
H Cheng , H Hong , K Shue
Do managers do good with other people's money? (No. w19432) Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,509
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,539
RANK
12,896
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies