Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Commonalities Facilitate Private Information Channels? Evidence from Common Gender and Insider Trading

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 758/2021

68 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2020 Last revised: 29 Jul 2021

Iain Clacher

University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

Beatriz Garcia Osma

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid ; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Elvira Scarlat

IE Business School, IE University

Karin Shields

University of London - Birkbeck College

Date Written: April 25, 2021

Abstract

We examine insider trading profitability and common identity between insiders and top executives. In particular, we argue that common gender and the resultant social connections it creates influence access to private information, where insiders benefit from greater information sharing with top executives of the same gender. Using a large sample of US firms between 1995 and 2016, we find higher (lower) insider trading profitability for female (male) insiders in the presence of a female CEO or CFO. We also study and find that, in isolation, other social and professional commonalities, such as common age, ethnicity, having attended the same university or having worked at the same firm also increase insider profitability, albeit to a lesser extent. Our evidence suggests that some of these commonalties, when cumulated, enhance the common gender effect. We examine formal interactions and find that attending meetings and serving on committees with top executives of the same gender enables private information sharing, consistent with common gender acting as an informational channel. We also document greater clustering of insiders’ trades around the trades made by common gender top executives. Our findings are consistent with flows of private information from CEOs and CFOs to less informed common gender insiders.

Keywords: Gender, Information Asymmetry, Insider Trading, Social Commonalities, Homophily

JEL Classification: G14, G34, J16, M41

Suggested Citation:

Clacher, Iain and Garcia Osma, Beatriz and Scarlat, Elvira and Shields, Karin, Do Commonalities Facilitate Private Information Channels? Evidence from Common Gender and Insider Trading (April 25, 2021). European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 758/2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3617747 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3617747
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , T J Presley
Female board presence and the likelihood of financial restatement
Account. Horizons , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 607 - 629 Posted: 2012
Crossref
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
J. Finance LV , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R B Adams
Women on boards: The superheroes of tomorrow?
Leadersh. Q , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 371 - 386 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Renée B. Adams , Vanitha Ragunathan
Lehman Sisters
Pages: 57 Posted: 3 Oct 2017 Last revised: 24 Jan 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
217
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,069
RANK
321,382
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies