Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Quality and Alliance Contract Provisions

58 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2020

Rui Ge

Shenzhen University & Audencia Business School

Yuan Ji

The University of Texas at Arlington

Henock Louis

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 7, 2020

Abstract

We show that the number of governance provisions imposed on a firm by a strategic alliance partner decreases with the firm’s accounting quality. This effect is weaker when the firm has greater bargaining power and stronger when the alliance project is riskier. Moreover, the net benefit to an alliance partner of imposing an additional governance provision on its counterparty apparently increases when the counterparty accounting quality is low, resulting in an enhancement of the partner’s market value and a reduction in its bankruptcy risk. Furthermore, alliance partners adopt fewer provisions based on their counterparties’ accounting numbers when the counterparties’ accounting quality is poor.

Keywords: Strategic Alliance Contracts; Accounting Quality; Governance Provisions

JEL Classification: D74, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ge, Rui and Ji, Yuan and Louis, Henock, Accounting Quality and Alliance Contract Provisions (June 7, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3621196 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3621196
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
130 References
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Earnings quality, insider trading, and cost of capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 5 , p. 651 - 673 Posted: 2005
Crossref
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , T Mitton
Determinants of vertical integration: Financial development and contracting costs
The Journal of Finance , volume 64 , issue 3 , p. 1251 - 1290 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting reporting integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Arino , J Reuer
Designing and renegotiating strategic alliance contracts , volume 18 , p. 37 - 47 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
465
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,919
RANK
141,919
130 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies