Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting in China: Political, Social, and Corporate Influences

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

30 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2020

Sepideh parsa

Middlesex University, Business School, Department of Accounting and Finance

Narisa Tianjing Dai

University of International Business and Economics - Business School

Ataur Belal

The University of Birmingham

Teng Li

Newcastle University

Guliang Tang

University of International Business and Economics

Date Written: June 7, 2020

Abstract

This paper explores the main drivers of CSR and its reporting for large Chinese listed companies, and identifies the key institutional pressures and stakeholder influences that shape CSR and its reporting. The data were collected through interviews with managers from large listed Chinese companies. Our findings reveal how the Chinese government uses social organisations and social intermediaries to facilitate and mediate CSR and its reporting to meet changing societal expectations across regions, while ensuring that companies remain responsive to the expectations of international stakeholders. We find that CSR and its reporting help companies gain political legitimacy domestically, while retaining their legitimacy in global markets. Companies co-operate with social organisations and social intermediaries actively and continuously. This helped companies secure political legitimacy with the government, while helping officials maintain their social legitimacy. Our findings on regional differences support the idea that relations between Chinese business and society have a fundamental effect on CSR and its reporting.

Keywords: Authoritarian CSR, CSR reporting, China, Institutional theory

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

parsa, Sepideh and Dai, Narisa Tianjing and Belal, Ataur and Li, Teng and Tang, Guliang, Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting in China: Political, Social, and Corporate Influences (June 7, 2020). Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3621571
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
C A Adams , C Larrinaga
Progress: Engaging with organisations in pursuit of improved sustainability accounting and performance
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 32 , issue 8 , p. 2367 - 2394 Posted: 2019
Crossref
H F Allen , J C Qian , C Y Zhang , M X Zhao
China's Financial System: Opportunities and Challenge, Capitalizing China Posted: 2012
A R Belal , S M Cooper , R W Roberts
Vulnerable and exploitable: The need for organisational accountability and transparency in emerging and less developed economies
Accounting Forum , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 81 - 91 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A R Belal , D Owen
The views of corporate managers on the current state of, and future prospects for, social reporting in Bangladesh: An engagement-based study
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 472 - 494 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,027
RANK
403,165
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies