Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Frontiers for Internal Audit Research

42 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2020

Margaret H. Christ

University of Georgia - Terry College of Business

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Ronja Krane

University of Duisburg-Essen

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 8, 2020

Abstract

Internal audit provides useful and valuable services to organizations and research has established its importance in improving corporate governance. However, the body of internal audit research is still small. Further, there are many new and emerging topics for which little is known and practitioners would like guidance. Based on surveys, interviews, and discussions with practitioners, we identify three broad areas for additional research: information technology, staffing and personnel development, and agile auditing. In each area, we describe the current practices and discuss the relevant accounting literature, noting gaps where additional inquiry is needed. We also provide a list of testable research ideas to help inform academics about practice-relevant research questions that would not only add to the academic literature, but would benefit practitioners who seek guidance. Hopefully, this paper will inspire more academic research that investigates important internal audit questions.

Keywords: Internal Audit, Innovation, Innovative Practices, Research opportunities

JEL Classification: M40, M42, G34, G32, M4, G3

Suggested Citation:

Christ, Margaret H. and Eulerich, Marc and Krane, Ronja and Wood, David A., New Frontiers for Internal Audit Research (June 8, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3622148 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3622148
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , A Parker , S , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit fee reductions from internal audit-provided assistance: The incremental impact of internal audit characteristics
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 118 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M Abdolmohammadi
Correlates of co-sourcing/outsourcing of internal audit activities
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 69 - 85 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S S Ahlawat , D J Lowe
An examination of internal auditor objectivity: In-house versus outsourcing
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 147 - 158 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,352
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,469
RANK
33,862
21 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies