Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance, Ownership Structure and Capital Structure: Evidence From Chinese Real Estate Listed Companies

International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, 2020

35 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2020

Yi Feng

University of Glasgow, Adam Smith Business School

Abeer Hassan

University of West of Scotland

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

Purpose – This paper seeks to contribute to the existing capital structure and board structure literature by examining the relationship among corporate governance, ownership structure and capital structure.

Design/methodology/approach – The paper employs a panel data of 595 firm-year observations from a unique and comprehensive data set of 119 Chinese real estate listed firms from 2014 to 2018. It uses fixed effect and random effect regression analysis techniques to examine the hypotheses.

Findings - The results show that the board size, ownership concentration and firm size have positive influences on capital structure. State ownership and firm profitability have inverse influences on capital structure.

Research limitations/ implications – The findings suggest that better-governed companies in the real estate sector tend to have better capital structure. These findings highlight the unique Chinese context and also offer regulators a strong incentive to pursue corporate governance reforms formally and jointly with ownership structure. Lastly, the results suggest investors the chance to shape detailed expectations about capital structure behavior in China. Future research could investigate capital structure using different arrangement, conducting face-to-face meetings with the firm’s directors and shareholders.

Practical implications– The findings offer support to corporate managers and investors in forming or /and expecting an optimal capital structure, and to policymakers and regulators for ratifying laws and developing institutional support to improve the effectiveness of corporate governance mechanisms.

Originality / value – This paper extends, as well as contributes to the current capital structure and corporate governance literature, by proposing new evidence on the effect of board structure and ownership structure on capital structure. The results will help policymakers in different countries in estimating the sufficiency of the available corporate governance reforms to improve capital structure management.


Keywords: corporate governance; agency theory; board structure; ownership structure; capital structure

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Yi and Hassan, Abeer and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed, Corporate Governance, Ownership Structure and Capital Structure: Evidence From Chinese Real Estate Listed Companies (2020). International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3622891 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3622891
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
113 References
J Abor
Corporate governance and financing decisions of Ghanaian listed firms. Corporate Governance: The international journal of business in society , volume 7 , p. 83 - 92 Posted: 2007
J Abor , N Biekpe
September. Does corporate governance affect the capital structure decisions of Ghanaian SMEs
Biennial Conference of the Economic Society of South Africa Posted: 2005-09
J Abor , N Biekpe
Corporate governance, ownership structure and performance of SMEs in Ghana: implications for financing opportunities. Corporate Governance: The international journal of business in society , volume 7 , p. 288 - 300 Posted: 2007
C Adel , M Hussain , E Mohamed , M Basuony
Is corporate governance relevant to the quality of corporate social responsibility disclosure in large European companies?
International Journal of Accounting & Information Management , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 301 - 332 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Rizal Ontorael , Muhammad Saifi , Nila Firdausi Nuzula , Zahro Z.A
Firm Size Moderating Effect on Financial Performance and Dividend Policy from Indonesia
Revista de Gestão Social e Ambiental , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. e06821 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Osama Samih Shaban
Applied Economic Research and Trends
, p. 1209 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Jinnatul Raihan Mumu , Paolo Saona , Hasibul Islam Russell , Md. Abul Kalam Azad
Corporate governance and remuneration: a bibliometric analysis
Journal of Asian Business and Economic Studies , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 242 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
348
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,014
RANK
196,969
3 Citations
113 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies