Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence on the Use and Efficacy of Internal Whistleblowing Systems

Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 58, Issue 2

Posted: 1 Jul 2020

Stephen Stubben

University of Utah

Kyle Welch

George Washington University; George Washington University - Department of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 1, 2020

Abstract

Using a proprietary data set from a provider of internal whistleblowing (WB) systems, we analyze nearly two million internal WB reports submitted to over 1,000 publicly traded U.S. firms. We provide descriptive statistics, over time and across report types, on the amount and summary details of information provided, how extensively management reviews reports, the amount of time until reviews were completed, and the outcome of these reviews. Further, we examine the characteristics of firms with more actively used systems (i.e., a higher volume of reports, more information provided in reports, and reports that are more frequently reviewed by management). Finally, we show that internal WB report volume is associated with fewer and lower amounts of government fines and material lawsuits.

Keywords: whistleblowing; employee hotlines; corporate governance; Sarbanes-Oxley Act

JEL Classification: G34; G38; M41; M42; M54

Suggested Citation:

Stubben, Stephen and Welch, Kyle, Evidence on the Use and Efficacy of Internal Whistleblowing Systems (May 1, 2020). Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 58, Issue 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3622565
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,821
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies