Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Timeliness of Financial Reporting by Indian Realty Companies – An Empirical Study

Posted: 29 Jul 2020

Charumathi Balakrishnan

Pondicherry University - Department of Management Studies

Murali Krishnan Ramachandran

Independent

Date Written: March 15, 2011

Abstract

The Indian real estate sector plays a significant role in the Indian economy. It is second only to agriculture in terms of employment generation and substantially contributes to the gross domestic product of the country. But, some constraints and lack of transparency are present in its governance issues. As Corporate governance became the subject of attention in recent times, its presence is like a backbone for any corporate that emphasizes its role for survival and sustainable growth in the long run. It ensures transparency. Transparency includes the following eight concepts, namely accuracy, consistency, appropriateness, completeness, clarity, timeliness, convenience, and governance & enforcement. Out of these, Timeliness of financial reporting is one of the attributes of good corporate governance identified by the OECD and World Bank. Shareholders and other Stakeholders need information while it is fresh and with high relevance. This paper examines the timeliness of financial reporting by Indian Real Estate Companies. Timeliness was measured by counting the number of days that has been lapsed between year-end and the date of the auditor’s report of the concerned companies. We took 13 realty companies which constitute the Realty Index of Bombay Stock Exchange and compared their reporting patterns for the financial years 2006-2010. The reliable data were drawn from the CMIE database Prowess and annual reports of the respective companies. This study used Chi-Square Test and Analysis of variance to analyze the data. It is found that there is no significant lag in financial reporting of Indian realty companies. However, there is a significant difference among the Indian realty companies in their reporting pattern.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Timeliness, Financial reporting, Indian Realty Companies.

Suggested Citation:

Balakrishnan, Charumathi and Ramachandran, Murali Krishnan, Corporate Governance and Timeliness of Financial Reporting by Indian Realty Companies – An Empirical Study (March 15, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3623722
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
431
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies