Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Characteristics and Audit Report Lag of Quoted Industrial Companies in Nigeria

IOSR Journal of Business and Management (IOSR-JBM), Volume 22, Issue 5. Ser. V (May. 2020), PP 01-09

9 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2020

Promise Nkak

Niger Delta University (NDU) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

The study investigated audit committee attributes and audit report lag of quoted industrial firms in Nigeria. This study adopted the ex-post facto design in which secondary data were collected from the NSE factbook and financial reports published by selected quoted companies covering eight (8) years from (2012- 2019). Descriptive statistics, Ordinary Least Square (OLS), and Hausman test were adopted for the data analysis. From the analytical output, it was observed that audit committee taken as a whole, does not necessarily facilitate speed in the release of audit certified annual financials of firms in this sector. However, decomposing the analysis via a variable silos model reveals that the number of financial experts on the committee and non-executive directors contributes considerably to ensuring the timeliness of audit certified annual financial returns. Therefore, it can be inferred that the compositional characteristics of the audit committee has a bearing on ARL. Following, it is recommended that all members of the audit committee, should be non-executive directors with financial expertise. Furthermore, the framers of the Nigerian Corporate Governance Code should modify the compositional requirements of audit committee to allow for only non-executive directors, knowledgeable in accounting. By virtue of listed firms being public entities, regulators should be allowed via enabling legislation to second or appoint experts to boards whose membership lacks the financial expertise to meet the modified audit committee compositional template.

Keywords: Audit Report Lag, Audit Committee Attributes, Industrial Goods, Financial Expert, Audit Committee Size, Non-Executive Director, and Audit Committee Meeting

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Nkak, Promise, Audit Committee Characteristics and Audit Report Lag of Quoted Industrial Companies in Nigeria (2020). IOSR Journal of Business and Management (IOSR-JBM), Volume 22, Issue 5. Ser. V (May. 2020), PP 01-09, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3623016
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
The effects of audit committee activity and independence on corporate fraud
Managerial Finance , volume 26 , issue 11 , p. 55 - 67 Posted: 2000
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2000
Crossref
O H Abdelsalam , D Street
Corporate governance and the timeliness of corporate internet reporting by UK listed companies
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 130 Posted: 2007
Crossref
W Z Abdullah , S Ismail , N Jamaluddin
The impact of board composition, ownership and CEO duality on audit quality: The Malaysian Evidence
Malaysian Accounting Review , volume 7 , issue 2 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
778
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,016
RANK
73,797
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies