Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure of Strategic Resources: Is a Competitive Advantage of Companies of Stock Exchange the Brazilian?

Posted: 2 Jul 2020 Last revised: 11 Nov 2020

Ruan Carlos dos Santos

affiliation not provided to SSRN; Universidade do Estado de Santa Catarina - UDESC

Thais Helena Moreira Pinho

Universidade do Vale do Itajaí

Date Written: June 10, 2020

Abstract

The understanding of competitive advantages is one of the majortheoretical questions in strategy research. It is known that strategic resources generate competitive advantage and that the disclosure of strategic information in a transparent way, mainly of resources, values the organization for investors and works as an attraction. Within this context, it was analyzed whether the dissemination of strategic resources influences the performance of organizations. Twenty companies from the São Paulo Stock Exchange of the most profitable sector of B3 from 2010 to 2018 were part of the analysis. A qualitative approach is adopted through a detailed analysis of the strategic resources of the Reference Forms. This analysis was carried out with the aid of Atlas TI software. After this step the number of disclosure of strategic resources was compared with the performance measured by ROE. The study contributes to the evolution of strategy research in relation to RBV and Theory of Disclosure and, as a practical contribution, to assist in the strategic choice of disclosed information. It was concluded that the disclosure of strategic resources does not influence the performance of the sample companies. Companies choose to disclose what is advantageous and do not consider it advantageous to disclose strategic resources because there is a greater risk of competitors copying their strategy of resources.

Keywords: Competitive Advantage; RBV; Disclosure of information; Performance

JEL Classification: M2

Suggested Citation:

Santos, Ruan Carlos dos and Santos, Ruan Carlos dos and Pinho, Thais Helena Moreira, Disclosure of Strategic Resources: Is a Competitive Advantage of Companies of Stock Exchange the Brazilian? (June 10, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3623649
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
456
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies