Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Culture and Firm Value: Evidence from Crisis

Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming

64 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2020 Last revised: 1 Nov 2022

Yiwei Fang

Illinois Institute of Technology

Franco Fiordelisi

University of Essex - Essex Business School

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Woon Sau Leung

University of Southampton - Southampton Business School

Gabriel Wong

Cardiff University - Cardiff Business School

Date Written: October 25, 2022

Abstract

Based on the Competing Values Framework (CVF), we score 10-K text to measure company culture in four types (collaborative, controlling, competitive, and creative) and examine its role in firm stability. We find that firms with higher controlling culture fared significantly better during the 2008-09 crisis. Firms with stronger controlling culture experienced fewer layoffs, less negative asset growth, greater debt issuance, and increased access to credit-line facilities during the crisis. The positive effect of the controlling culture is stronger among the financially-constrained firms. Overall, the controlling culture improves firm stability through greater support from capital providers.

Keywords: Corporate Culture; Competing Values Framework; Textual Analysis; Financial Crisis; Abnormal Returns; Firm Stability

JEL Classification: G01, M14

Suggested Citation:

Fang, Yiwei and Fiordelisi, Franco and Hasan, Iftekhar and Leung, Woon Sau and Wong, Gabriel, Corporate Culture and Firm Value: Evidence from Crisis (October 25, 2022). Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3623400 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3623400
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
121 References
D Aboody , O Even-Tov , R Lehavy , B Trueman
Overnight Returns and Firm-Specific Investor Sentiment
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 53 , p. 485 - 505 Posted: 2018
V V Acharya , S T Bharath , A Srinivasan
Does Industry-Wide Distress Affect Defaulted Firms? Evidence from Creditor Recoveries
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 85 , p. 787 - 821 Posted: 2007
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , S Yang , C Zhang
Resiliency of Environmental and Social Stocks: An Analysis of the Exogenous COVID-19 Market Crash. The Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , p. 593 - 621 Posted: 2020
W Antweiler , Z F Murray
Is All That Talk Just Noise? The Information Content of Internet Stock Message Boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 1259 - 1293 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
422
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,407
RANK
158,514
6 Citations
121 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies