Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Corporate Governance

89 George Washington Law Review, Forthcoming

University of Illinois College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 20-21

Univ. of Wisconsin Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1608

64 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2020 Last revised: 8 Oct 2020

Jeremy McClane

George Washington University - Law School

Yaron Nili

Duke University School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: December 15, 2019

Abstract

Corporate directors, like most people, are social creatures, and their social networks affect their decisions. But directors’ social networks remain both understudied and under-theorized by scholars and inconsistently addressed by courts. This Article comprehensively examines the importance of director networks to corporate governance for the first time. Using qualitative and quantitative data, the Article uncovers the importance of director networks to corporate governance and the implications that network theory poses for the study of corporate law. In doing so, the Article tackles an understudied corner of corporate decision-making at a critical time, when directors have an outsized influence over their companies and in many cases, the United States economy as a whole.

This Article builds on a robust literature in corporate governance and decision-making. Much of the existing scholarship has focused on whether directors—especially “busy directors” who serve on multiple boards—are meeting investors’ and regulators’ expectations. However, the literature overlooks an important aspect of busyness, that when directors serve on multiple boards, they also build a social network that extends beyond the companies they serve, spanning several degrees of separation. This Article shows how these broader connections affect corporate governance and discusses the legal implications of what it terms as “Social Corporate Governance.”

This Article makes three contributions to the literature. First, the Article identifies the significance of network theory to contemporary corporate governance discourse and develops a theoretical framework to better account for directors’ service on multiple boards. Second, it empirically examines the direct impact that director networks have on the governance of public firms. It does so through an original data set that reveals some of the positive effects that director networks have on companies’ governance and further demonstrates how network analysis adds important insights to existing empirical studies regarding director service on multiple boards, at times significantly altering their results. Finally, the Article suggests that the current discourse by regulators, institutional investors, and academics may underestimate the importance that director networks have for companies. The Article then suggests several policy reforms to address these findings.


Keywords: Directors, Corporate Governance, Networks, Accounting, Entrenchment

Suggested Citation:

McClane, Jeremy and Nili, Yaron, Social Corporate Governance (December 15, 2019). 89 George Washington Law Review, Forthcoming, University of Illinois College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 20-21, Univ. of Wisconsin Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1608, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3623335 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3623335
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Del , Ch
Crossref
Pers
Touch Holding Corp. v. Glaubach, No. 11199-CB
Del. Ch. LEXIS , volume 66 Posted: 2019-02-25
Id
Rauterberg & Talley, supra note 42 , p. 1093 - 94
Load more
1 Citations
Elise Bernlohr Maizel
The Case for Downsizing the Corporate Attorney-Client Privilege
UC Law Journal · 40 Pages · Posted: 14 Mar 2023 · Last revised: 13 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 219
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
263
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,940
RANK
265,489
1 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Wisconsin Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Illinois College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies