Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Diversity on British Boards and Personal Traits That Impact Career Progression From AIM Towards FTSE 100

Mateus C., Mateus B. I. and Stojonovic A. (2020), Diversity on British Boards and personal traits that impact career progression from AIM towards FTSE100, Corporate Ownership and Control, forthcoming

39 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2020

Cesario Mateus

Aalborg University Business School

Irina B. Mateus

Aalborg University

Alex stojanovic

University of Greenwich - Business School

Date Written: June 12, 2020

Abstract

This study proposes a new approach to examining executive remuneration and manager characteristics disaggregated by market index peer clusters and analyses personal attributes that differentiate managers across companies of different market caps (proxied my market indices such as FTSE100, FTSE250, FTSE SmallCap and AIM). Our sample is composed of biographical data on 790 executive directors from 125 UK financial firms covering a 2004-2016 time period. The results show that network and education are the most important factors for career progression. On average, FTSE 100 executive directors are three times better connected and two times better educated than FTSE SmallCap and AIM board members. The larger the firm, the more diverse the board with more international (non-British) and female directors (even though male executives mostly dominate). Higher position is associated with greater age, while new executives tend to be younger and better connected. We highlight a change in the new managers’ skill-set after the financial crisis which may presumably be explained by risk aversion. New directors appointed after 2008 are, on average, older and better educated. Even though after the crisis we document that all the boardrooms, except FTSE SmallCap, appear to have become more gender diverse, the female presence in the boards is scarce and the highest number of women was mainly employed during the financial crisis. After 2008, British boards have become less nationality diverse. Thus, for the purpose of maintaining companies’ competitive advantage in increasingly diverse markets, it requires further attention from policy regulators.

Keywords: Board composition, board diversity, personal characteristics, executive directors, remuneration, peer benchmarking

JEL Classification: G30, G38

Suggested Citation:

Mateus, Cesario and B. Mateus, Irina and stojanovic, Alex, Diversity on British Boards and Personal Traits That Impact Career Progression From AIM Towards FTSE 100 (June 12, 2020). Mateus C., Mateus B. I. and Stojonovic A. (2020), Diversity on British Boards and personal traits that impact career progression from AIM towards FTSE100, Corporate Ownership and Control, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3625436
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
985
RANK
521,283
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies