Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of the Usefulness of Inside Debt in Debt Contract Design

39 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2020 Last revised: 25 Feb 2022

Peter R. Demerjian

School of Accountancy, J. Mack Robinson College of Business, Georgia State University

Paige Harrington Patrick

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Accounting

Frances M. Tice

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 1, 2020

Abstract

We provide evidence on how borrowers’ credit constraints and distress risk affect the weight creditors place on inside debt when designing debt contract terms, focusing on the inclusion and strictness of covenants and the cost of debt. We find evidence that creditors place less weight on inside debt when borrowers have credit constraints, consistent with a shift in bargaining power to lenders, and when firms experience financial distress, consistent with increased agency costs when bankruptcy is more probable. Our evidence is stronger for the cost of debt than for covenant inclusion or strictness. We augment our results by leveraging two plausibly exogenous shocks to firms’ credit constraints and distress risk: the Global Financial Crisis and industry-level shocks to demand. Consistent with our primary tests, we detect reduced weight on inside debt for debt contracting during these events.

Suggested Citation:

Demerjian, Peter R. and Patrick, Paige Harrington and Tice, Frances M., Determinants of the Usefulness of Inside Debt in Debt Contract Design (June 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3625161 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3625161
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
E Altman
Predicting the financial distress of companies: Revisiting the Z-score and zeta models. Working paper Posted: 2000
D Anantharaman , V Fang , G Gong
Inside debt and the design of corporate debt contracts
Management Science , volume 60 , issue 5 , p. 1260 - 1280 Posted: 2014
A Berger , R Demsetz , P Strahan
The consolidation of the Financial services industry: Causes, consequences, and implications for the future
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 23 , issue 2-3 , p. 135 - 194 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,151
RANK
502,079
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies