Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Polylithic Nature of Family-Owned Businesses: Heterogeneous Responses to – and from – Brazilian Financial Market Reform

Posted: 10 Jul 2020

Susan Perkins

New York University (NYU) - Department of Management and Organizational Behavior

Edward J. Zajac

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Business

Date Written: June 11, 2020

Abstract

Accompanying the increasing globalization of firms and financial markets has been the growing belief that both firms and their financial markets will benefit from the adoption of improved corporate governance practices, particularly in emerging markets historically dominated by family-owned firms. We provide a more nuanced examination of this belief by advancing a theoretical perspective on the polylithic nature of family-owned firms, and use our typology of family firms to hypothesize why some family firms are more open to improved corporate governance than others. We contextualize our hypotheses using the recent Brazilian financial market reform, which allowed firms to self-select into new trading sub-segments distinguished by the stringency of corporate governance requirements. We offer and test differentiated predictions as to which type of Brazilian family-owned firms is most/least likely to self-select into more stringent trading segments, and with what financial market consequences. We predict and find that Brazilian financial markets do generally reward firms that choose a more stringent stock market segment, but do not anticipate that some firms engage in symbolic vs. substantive adoption of good governance practices. We discuss the implications of our approach and findings for research on corporate governance, family-owned firms, and institutional change in emerging markets.

Keywords: Family-Owned Firms, Corporate Governance, Financial Markets, Emerging Markets, Institutional Reform

Suggested Citation:

Perkins, Susan and Zajac, Edward J., On the Polylithic Nature of Family-Owned Businesses: Heterogeneous Responses to – and from – Brazilian Financial Market Reform (June 11, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3625167
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
351
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Law School, John M. Olin Program in Law & Economics Working Paper Series

Follow

Harvard Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies