Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ASEAN Countries CG Disclosure Practices: A Comparative Analysis of One-Tier and Two-Tier Board Structures

Posted: 25 Jun 2020

Tahseen Khan

(UMT) University of Management and Technology (Pakistan)

Date Written: June 14, 2020

Abstract

Study focal point is to access the influence of CEO characteristics and audit quality on disclosure quality in the comparison between one-tier and two-tier board structures. Tobit regression model with the random effect is used to access influence on disclosure quality by using the sample of 200 non-financial firms of Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, and Singapore for the period from FY 2011 to FY 2015. The study empirically analyses the various characteristics of one and two-tier board structures. Findings of the study observe CEO dual role inversely and audit committee expertise directly impact disclosure quality for both structures. Further, observed audit committee size and firm size directly impact disclosure quality for one-tier structure and CEO age and leverage inversely impact two-tier structure. Finally, CEO tenure, audit quality and audit committee independence having no impact on disclosure quality for both board structure.

Keywords: disclosure quality; CEO characteristics; one-tier boards; two-tier boards; audit quality characteristics; non-financial firms

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Tahseen, ASEAN Countries CG Disclosure Practices: A Comparative Analysis of One-Tier and Two-Tier Board Structures (June 14, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3626670
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
555
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies