Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Corrupt Practices Statistics, Qualitative Issues, and Other Developments

Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2020

Mike Koehler

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 14, 2020

Abstract

This article, part of a continuing series of yearly analysis of Foreign Corrupt Practices Act enforcement and related developments, provides a detailed overview of quantitative and qualitative FCPA and related information and will be of value to anyone seeking to elevate their FCPA knowledge.

Section I of the article discusses how, similar to prior years in the FCPA’s modern era, 2019 was another year of robust FCPA enforcement against companies large and small and across industry sectors. In fact, 2019 was the largest year in FCPA history in terms of corporate settlement amounts as the government collected approximately $2.65 billion. Section II of the article switches gears to discuss various qualitative issues associated with 2019 FCPA enforcement including: (i) the long time periods associated with FCPA scrutiny; (ii) the general lack of judicial scrutiny of enforcement theories; (iii) the substantial gap between corporate and individual enforcement; and (iv) how much of the largeness of FCPA enforcement was due to enforcement actions against foreign companies; and certain statutory interpretation issues. Section III of the article discusses other noteworthy developments from 2019 including: (i) FCPA and FCPA related enforcement agency policy developments including revisions to the DOJ’s FCPA Corporate Enforcement Policy, the DOJ’s Evaluation of Corporate Compliance Programs as well as the DOJ’s new so-called “inability to pay” policy; (ii) legislative developments related to the FCPA including efforts to target bribe demands made by foreign officials and how best to make use of FCPA settlement amounts; and (iii) an FCPA related judicial decision providing business organizations possible legal recourse if they lose a business opportunity because of the conduct of another business organization resolving an FCPA enforcement action.

Keywords: FCPA, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act

Suggested Citation:

Koehler, Mike, Foreign Corrupt Practices Statistics, Qualitative Issues, and Other Developments (June 14, 2020). Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3626631
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,233
RANK
355,741
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies