Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance in India Impact on Firm Performance

12 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2020

Preeti Kumari

Galgotias University

Date Written: June 14, 2020

Abstract

Corporate India witnessed the burgeoning economic growth since the 1990s that brought to the forefront the need for Indian companies to adopt corporate governance standards and practices, which are in line with international guidelines. This paper contributes to the existing literature by providing a review of the conceptual as well as empirical researches in the area of corporate governance and firm performance by highlighting the relationship between the corporate governance mechanisms (board size, board composition, frequency of board meetings, CEO duality) and firm performance. The research findings are contradictory and inconsistent. Some studies founded a strong positive association while some reported negative relationship between corporate governance mechanisms and firm performance while others did not found any significant relationship between the two.

Keywords: Corporate governance, firm performance, board size and CEO duality

Suggested Citation:

Kumari, Preeti, Corporate Governance in India Impact on Firm Performance (June 14, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3626626 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3626626
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
558
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,063
RANK
113,283
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies