Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Passive investment and share repurchases

43 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2020 Last revised: 29 Feb 2024

Brian Bratten

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Meng Huang

University of Toledo

Jeff L. Payne

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 14, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the association between passive investment and share repurchases, both of which are at historically high levels and the subject of increased scrutiny. We first document that firms with more passive ownership exhibit higher levels of repurchase activity. Next, and more importantly, we find that firms with passive ownership conduct more "suspect" repurchases that result in reported earnings that meets or beats analysts' earnings forecasts, and this effect is more pronounced for firms with performance-based equity compensation incentive plans. We also find that repurchase activity more negatively affects firms' future employment, capital expenditures, and performance when the firm has more passive owners. We conclude that passive investment is associated with an increase in the quantity and a reduction in the quality of firms' repurchase activities. Our study provides evidence that passive institutional investment may allow opportunistic management behavior, rather than serving the monitoring role traditionally associated with institutional ownership.

Keywords: passive investment, stock repurchases, earnings management, payout policy JEL Classification: M41, G32, G35

JEL Classification: M41, G32, G35

Suggested Citation:

Bratten, Brian and Huang, Meng and Payne, Jeff L., Passive investment and share repurchases (June 14, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3626244 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3626244
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
458
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,536
RANK
144,163
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies