Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
It’s Who You Know That Counts: Board Connectedness and CSR Performance

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

79 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2020

Abu S. Amin

Central Michigan University - Department of Finance and Law

Lamia Chourou

University of Ottawa

Mahfuja Malik

Sacred Heart University; Boston University

Syed M Kamal

Department of Finance

Yang Zhao

Newcastle University

Date Written: June 15, 2020

Abstract

We examine whether and how board connections affect the firm's corporate social responsibilities (CSR). Grounded in the agency, resource dependence, and social network theory, our research predicts and finds that board connectedness is positively associated with CSR performance. This result is robust to a quasi-natural experiment, alternative measurement specifications, and an instrumental variable approach. Our findings suggest firms that operate in a complex business environment or require more advising (i.e. where demand for information is greater) benefit more from a well-networked board. Also, firms that are poorly governed, have high stock return volatility, low market capitalization, or low institutional ownership tend to benefit more from the well-connected board when the cost of acquiring information is higher. In addition, we show that independent directors’ abilities to gather information and resources from their networks can facilitate the transmission of information. Collectively, our study documents the informational advantage of a network as the predominant channel that allows a well-connected board to improve a firm’s CSR performance.

Keywords: Social network, Board connectedness, Corporate social responsibility

JEL Classification: G30, G39

Suggested Citation:

Amin, Abu S. and Chourou, Lamia and Malik, Mahfuja and Kamal, Syed and Zhao, Yang, It’s Who You Know That Counts: Board Connectedness and CSR Performance (June 15, 2020). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3627885
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
R B Adams , P Funk
Beyond the glass ceiling: does gender matter?
Management Sci , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 219 - 235 Posted: 2012
Crossref
B K Adhikari
Causal effect of analyst following on corporate social responsibility
J. Corporate Finance , volume 41 , p. 201 - 216 Posted: 2016
Crossref
P Adler , S.-W Kwon
Social capital: prospects for a new concept
Acad. Management Rev , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 40 Posted: 2002
Crossref
F Akbas , F Meschke , M B Wintoki
Director networks and informed traders
J. Accounting Econom , volume 62 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
7 Citations
Vincent Intintoli , Kathleen M. Kahle , Wanli Zhao
Director Connectedness and Advising Quality: The Role of Inside and Outside Directors
71 Pages · Posted: 18 Nov 2018 · Last revised: 22 Oct 2021 · Downloads: 257
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lai Van Vo , Huong T. T. Le , Youngbin Kim
Board Interlocks, Career Prospects, and Corporate Social Responsibility
Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming · 55 Pages · Posted: 24 Sep 2019 · Last revised: 15 May 2023 · Downloads: 262
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Zhangfan Cao , Dien Giau Bui , Edward Lee , Chih-Yung Lin
The Unintended Consequences of Social Networks: The Impact of Board Connectedness on Audit Pricing
60 Pages · Posted: 9 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 2 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 43
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sudipta Bose , Muhammad Jahangir Ali , Sarowar Hossain , Abul Shamsuddin
Does CEO–Audit Committee/Board Interlocking Matter for Corporate Social Responsibility?
Journal of Business Ethics, 2021 · 52 Pages · Posted: 16 Jun 2021 · Last revised: 16 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 157
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
984
RANK
640,233
7 Citations
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies