Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Roles of Independent Directors in Promoting Best Corporate Governance Practices

11 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2020

Society for Corporate Governance Nigeria

African Corporate Governance Network

Date Written: March 31, 2020

Abstract

The importance of having individuals with no financial, personal, or material attachments, as directors of the company stemmed primarily from the proverb, “whomever pays the piper dictates the tune.” As each board director represented various interests, ranging from institutional investors, shareholders with large holdings, venture capitalists, the CEO among others which may supersede the interests of the company and the shareholders.

Therefore, the need for a director bearing impartiality and objectivity to the board brought forth the 'independent director' who would, occupy a unique position to dissect through the core issues and find a neutral position where issues arises in the boardroom; being a bridge builder in difficult conversations; bring in a specific expertise to the board and utilize his or her networking abilities and other resources to enhance the company's portfolio. This article therefore seeks to examine who an independent director is, the difference from non-executive directors, the roles of independent directors, frameworks imposing the inclusion of independent directors as well as the evaluation of independence and its application in Nigeria, while juxtaposing it with other countries.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Non-Executive Directors, Independent Directors

Suggested Citation:

Corporate Governance Nigeria, Society for, The Roles of Independent Directors in Promoting Best Corporate Governance Practices (March 31, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3628505 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3628505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
242
ABSTRACT VIEWS
894
RANK
288,800
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies