Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Competence and Earnings Management in Europe

Fortchoming in Revista de Contabilidad-Spanish Accounting Review

39 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2020 Last revised: 29 Jul 2020

César Zarza-Herranz

University of Valladolid

Nuria Reguera

University of Seville

Félix J. López-Iturriaga

Universidad de Valladolid - Department of Finance and Accounting

Date Written: June 17, 2020

Abstract

This study analyses the association between the competence of audit committee members and earnings management in a sample of 142 non-financial firms from France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom over the 2006–2013 period. We measure members’ competence through their dedication and expertise. We find that outside directorships have a dual effect, such that a balanced level of dedication to the audit committee (roughly two outside directorships) reduces earnings management. We examine four types of expertise: audit, non-audit accounting, non-accounting financial, and supervisory expertise. We find a negative relation between earnings management and the audit experience of committee members, and that the other types of expertise play no relevant role. We also find that the contribution of audit experts to curbing earnings management proves particularly important in smaller and less active committees, as well as in smaller and busier boards.

Keywords: accounting expertise, audit committee, auditing, corporate governance, earnings management, financial expertise

JEL Classification: M42, G34

Suggested Citation:

Zarza-Herranz, César and Reguera, Nuria and Lopez-Iturriaga, Felix Javier, Audit Committee Competence and Earnings Management in Europe (June 17, 2020). Fortchoming in Revista de Contabilidad-Spanish Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3629048 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3629048
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
J L Abernathy , D Herrmann , T Kang , G V Krishnan
Audit committee financial expertise and properties of analyst earnings forecasts
Advances in Accounting , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S Albring , D Robinson , M Robinson
Audit committee financial expertise, corporate governance, and the voluntary switch from auditor-provided to non-auditorprovided tax services
Advances in Accounting , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 94 Posted: 2014
Crossref
T S Almarayeh , B Aibar-Guzmán , M Abdullatif
2020) ¿Influye la calidad de la auditoría en la gestión de resultados en los mercados emergentes? Evidencia de Jordania
Revista de Contabilidad -Spanish Accounting Review , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 64 - 74
D Archambeault , F T Dezoort
Auditor opinion shopping and the audit committee: An analysis of suspicious auditor switches
International Journal of Auditing , volume 5 , p. 33 - 52 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,060
RANK
352,349
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies