Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Bank Risk Disclosures Informative? Evidence From Debt Markets

International Journal of Finance and Economics, 2020

41 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2020

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Hussein A. Abdou

Northumbria University; Department of Management, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Andrews Owusu

University of Derby - Derby Business School

Mohamed Elmagrhi

University of Huddersfield, Huddersfield Business School, Queensgate, Huddersfield, HD1 3DH; Swansea University, School of Management; University of Huddersfield - Business School

Awad Ibrahim

University of Portsmouth - Portsmouth Business School, Students

Date Written: June 18, 2020

Abstract

This study examines whether financial reporting with a specific focus on risk disclosures have a predictive (informative) effect on banks’ credit ratings (BCRs) and, consequently, ascertains whether governance structures can moderate such an association. Using one of the largest bank-level datasets collected from 12 Middle East and North African (MENA) countries over the 2006-2013 period to-date, our findings are as follows. First, we find that risk disclosures have a predictive effect on BCRs. Second, we find that the relationship between risk disclosures and BCRs is contingent on the quality of governance structures. Specifically, we find that the informativeness of risk disclosures on BCRs is higher in banks with larger board size, greater independence, higher government ownership, and better Shariah supervisory board, but lower in banks with greater block ownership, higher foreign ownership and the presence of CEO duality. The central tenor of our findings remains unchanged after controlling for a number of firm- and country-level factors, alternative risk disclosure measures, firm- and national-level governance proxies, different types of banks, and potential endogeneities. The findings have important implications for investors, especially bondholders, standard-setters, regulators, and central governments.

Keywords: Financial Reporting, Risk Disclosures, Banks’ Credit Ratings, Debt Markets, Governance Structures, MENA

JEL Classification: G21, G24, G32, G34, G38, M48

Suggested Citation:

Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Ntim, Collins G. and Abdou, Hussein A. and Owusu, Andrews and Elmagrhi, Mohamed and Elmagrhi, Mohamed and Ibrahim, Awad, Are Bank Risk Disclosures Informative? Evidence From Debt Markets (June 18, 2020). International Journal of Finance and Economics, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3630604
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
132 References
A A N Abdallah , M K Hassan , P L Mcclelland
Islamic Financial Institutions, Corporate Governance, and Corporate Risk Disclosure in Gulf Cooperation Council Countries
Journal of Multinational Financial Management , volume 31 , p. 63 - 82 Posted: 2015
Crossref
P Abedifar , P Giudici , S Q Hashem
Heterogeneous market structure and systemic risk: Evidence from dual banking systems
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 33 , p. 96 - 119 Posted: 2017
Crossref
A Al-Hadi , M M Hasan , A Habib
Risk committee, firm life cycle, and market risk disclosures
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 145 - 170 Posted: 2016
Crossref
A Al-Hadi , M M Hasan , G Taylor , M Hossain , G Richardson
Market risk disclosures and investment efficiency: International evidence from the Gulf Cooperation Council financial firms
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 349 - 393 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,076
RANK
735,901
5 Citations
132 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies