Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Corporate Governance Able to Moderate Income Smoothing in Mining Sector

International Journal of Management, 11 (5), 2020, pp. 486-496.

11 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2020

Bambang Leo Handoko

Accounting Department, Faculty of Economics and Communication Bina Nusantara University, Jakarta, Indonesia, 11480

Daniel Yosia Arbi

Accounting Department, Faculty of Economics and Communication, Bina Nusantara University, Jakarta, Indonesia, 11480

Date Written: June 19, 2020

Abstract

Income smoothing has become a phenomenon. It when companies report large profits, people become asked whether this is really real profit or profit that is intentionally made for a particular purpose. Departing from this, we made a study of income smoothing in the mining sector. Mining sector is one sector that is classified as profitable for people; this sector can be called an opportunist and opportunist sector often associated with earnings management and income smoothing. Our research is quantitative research. We use secondary data, financial statements of mining companies for the past five years. We use path analysis for the analysis tools in this study. We use three moderator variables, namely: institutional ownership, managerial ownership and audit committee. We examine the three moderator variables whether they can moderate profitability and leverage on income smoothing. The results of our study state that profitability influences income smoothing. In addition managerial ownership is able to moderate profitability and leverage, while the audit committee is only able to moderate profitability on income smoothing.

Keywords: corporate, governance, income, smoothing, mining, company

Suggested Citation:

Handoko, Bambang Leo and Arbi, Daniel Yosia, How Corporate Governance Able to Moderate Income Smoothing in Mining Sector (June 19, 2020). International Journal of Management, 11 (5), 2020, pp. 486-496., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3630792
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
D N Herda , K A Martin
The effects of auditor experience and professional commitment on acceptance of underreporting time: A moderated mediation analysis
Curr. Issues Audit , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 14 - 27 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R F Darise
Detection Of Fraudulent Financial Statements Using The Beneish Ratio Index For Manufacturing Companies Listed On The Indonesian Stock Exchange In Posted: 2016
Crossref
B L Handoko , K A Ramadhani
Pengaruh Karakteristik Komite Audit, Keahlian Keuangan dan Ukuran Perusahaan terhadap Kemungkinan Kecurangan Laporan Keuangan
DeReMa J. Manajement Posted: 2017
S F Cahan , J Sun
The Effect of Audit Experience on Audit Fees and Audit Quality
J. Accounting, Audit. Financ Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
915
RANK
264,473
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies