Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Busy Directors Impede or Spur Bank Performance and Bank Risks? Event Study Evidence from Brazil

Sage Open. DOI:10.1177/21582440209335, 2020

17 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2020

William Mbanyele

Center for Economic Research, Shandong University

Date Written: June 12, 2020

Abstract

The paper investigates the implications of busy directors on bank performance and bank risks in Brazil. The study employs an event study based on a change in board status as an identification strategy, Heckman’s two-stage model, and the propensity score matching method to account for endogeneity. The study findings show that busy directors contribute to an increase in bank market value. Regarding bank risks, the study shows that multiple directorships contribute to an increase in asset risk and insolvency risk. The study contributes to the existing literature by showing that busy directors are associated with high bank risks in foreign-owned banks while they disproportionately reduce bank risks in state-owned banks. Considering the importance of bank stability in promoting economic growth in Brazil and the positive impact of busy directors on bank risks, there is need for the policymakers to craft clear corporate governance clauses which guide the selection of multiple directors and enforce feedback and accountability mechanisms that govern busy directors who serve in Brazilian banks. Reducing excessive participation for busy directors serving in bank boards ensures that the directors have adequate time and attention to discharge their governance responsibilities efficiently, thus resulting in robust risk monitoring strategies in bank operations.

Keywords: Bank performance, busy director, Brazil, bank risk

JEL Classification: G21 G32 G41

Suggested Citation:

Mbanyele, William, Do Busy Directors Impede or Spur Bank Performance and Bank Risks? Event Study Evidence from Brazil (June 12, 2020). Sage Open. DOI:10.1177/21582440209335, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3630226
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
A R Abdelbadie , A Salama
Corporate governance and stability in US banks: Do indirect interlocks matter
Journal of Business Research , volume 104 , p. 85 - 105 Posted: 2019
Crossref
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Regulatory pressure and bank directors' incentives to attend board meetings
International Review of Finance , volume 12 , p. 227 - 248 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R B Adams , H Mehran
Bank board structure and performance: Evidence for large bank holding companies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 21 , p. 243 - 267 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
William Mbanyele , Fengrong Wang
Board Interlocks and Stock Liquidity: New Evidence from an Emerging Market
Emerging Markets Finance and Trade, Forthcoming · 44 Pages · Posted: 4 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 9 Jul 2021 · Downloads: 130
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
492
1 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies