Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Client Bargaining Power on Audit Pricing in Voluntary and Involuntary Audit Switching Environment

25 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2020

Frendy

Nagoya University of Commerce and Business

Fumiko Takeda

Keio University

Date Written: June 19, 2020

Abstract

This paper employs the dissolution of two major Japanese audit firms to identify voluntary and involuntary audit switching behavior and how does it affect the interaction between client bargaining power and audit pricing. Using a sample of listed Japanese companies from 2005 to 2015, we find that clients with high bargaining power switching to smaller auditors pay lower audit fees compared to clients not switching auditors. The leverage power of buyers’ bargaining power in negotiating fees is comparable between involuntary and voluntary switching auditors. In the long-term, the clients' bargaining power leverage to lower audit fees is enhanced for clients who involuntarily switched to audit firms affiliated with the defunct auditors. However, clients with weaker bargaining power lose their leverage power as audit market supply constraints increased in the Big 3 period. This study contributes to the debate on the effect of mandatory audit firm rotation regulation on audit pricing as our paper provides a quasi-controlled environment that compares companies in voluntary and involuntary audit switching environment.

Keywords: client bargaining power, voluntary, involuntary, audit switch, audit pricing

JEL Classification: M16, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

, Frendy and Takeda, Fumiko, The Effects of Client Bargaining Power on Audit Pricing in Voluntary and Involuntary Audit Switching Environment (June 19, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3631038
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
934
RANK
453,964
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies