Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Earnings Management Nexus: Evidence from the UK and Egypt Using Neural Networks

International Journal of Finance & Economics, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2020

Hussein A. Abdou

Northumbria University; Department of Management, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Nouran N. Ellelly

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Khaled Hussainey

Portsmouth University

Hassan Yazdifar

University of Salford - Salford Business School

Date Written: June 19, 2020

Abstract

Using conventional regressions and Generalized Regression Neural Networks (GRNN), we examine the relationship between Corporate Governance (CG) and Earnings Management (EM). We also examine whether governance quality moderates the association between EM and CG for a sample of British and Egyptian companies. Our findings show that:

(a) UK firms are likely to have lower levels of EM if they: have smaller boards, are dominated by independent outside directors, and have a low percentage of female directors;

(b) Egyptian firms are likely to have lower levels of EM if they: have larger boards, are dominated by independent outside directors, and have a low percentage of female directors;

(c) The governance quality (control of corruption) has a significant hidden effect on EM.

Since our results provide empirical evidence that the board of directors plays a vital role in mitigating EM, these findings might lead to an improvement in the credibility of financial statements for investors in both the UK and Egypt. As policy implications, our findings inform regulators and policy-makers that corruption has a very strong hidden effect on EM and that they can deter EM by controlling the corruption level in their countries.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Corporate Governance, Governance Quality, Neural Networks, Corruption

JEL Classification: C45, G34, G38, K42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Abdou, Hussein A. and Ellelly, Nouran N. and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Hussainey, Khaled and Yazdifar, Hassan, Corporate Governance and Earnings Management Nexus: Evidence from the UK and Egypt Using Neural Networks (June 19, 2020). International Journal of Finance & Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3631424 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3631424
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International accounting standards and accounting quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M Becht , P Bolton , A Röell
Corporate governance and control
Handbook of the Economics of Finance , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 109 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Bedard , S M Chtourou , L Courteau
The effect of audit committee expertise, independence, and activity on aggressive earnings management
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 13 - 35 Posted: 2004
Crossref
F V Bekiris , L C Doukakis
Corporate governance and accruals earnings management
Managerial and Decision Economics , volume 32 , issue 7 , p. 439 - 456 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
852
RANK
644,694
6 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies