Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Analysts’ Recommendations Reflect Co-Opted Boards?

25 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2020

Suwongrat Papangkorn

Thammasat University

Pattanaporn Chatjuthamard

Sasin GIBA

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Piyachart Phiromswad

Sasin of Chulalongkorn University

Date Written: June 21, 2020

Abstract

Purpose: This study examines whether co-opted directors influence analysts’ recommendations. As information intermediaries, financial analysts should incorporate the quality of corporate governance into their valuation because well-governed firms are associated with lower agency costs and better performance. Co-opted directors are those appointed after the incumbent CEO assumes office.

Design/methodology/approach: The present study uses univariate analysis, multi-variate regression analysis, as well as conduct a natural experiment using the Sarbanes-Oxley as an exogenous shock.

Findings: The results show that firms with fewer co-opted directors tend to receive more favorable recommendations, suggesting that analysts favor firms with strong corporate governance. The results hold even after controlling for various firm characteristics, including the traditional measures of board quality, i.e. board size and independent directors.

Originality: The paper is the first of its kind and offers evidence on the effect of co-opted directors on analyst recommendations. The results contribute to the literature both in corporate governance and in financial intermediaries, where analysts play a crucial role in providing information to the various participants in financial markets.

Suggested Citation:

Papangkorn, Suwongrat and Chatjuthamard, Pattanaporn and Jiraporn, Pornsit and Phiromswad, Piyachart, Do Analysts’ Recommendations Reflect Co-Opted Boards? (June 21, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3632267 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3632267
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Chaiyuth Padungsaksawasdi , Sirimon Treepongkaruna , Pornsit Jiraporn , Ali Uyar
Does Board Independence Influence Asset Redeployability? Evidence From a Quasi-Natural Experiment
34 Pages · Posted: 21 Sep 2021 · Downloads: 107
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
855
RANK
785,362
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies