Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Secretary of Board of Directors and Corporate Internal Information: Evidence from Chinese Stock Market

32 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2020

Bingwei Chen

Chinese Academy of Finance and Development

Guanglei Zhou

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - Chinese Academy of Finance and Development

Date Written: June 22, 2020

Abstract

In 2006, the implementation of the new company law confirmed the executive status of the secretary of the board of directors for the first time in a legal sense, and also emphasized the responsibility of the secretary of the board of directors in "handling information disclosure affairs". Internal control information disclosure is the enterprise according to the standard of internal control evaluation of the enterprise internal control system of self-evaluation, investors judge the value of the enterprise. Can the secretary of the board of directors affect the quality of internal control information disclosure of listed companies? The role of his personal background in the process of information disclosure deserves further study. Based on the empirical study of 2400 listed companies in Shanghai and Shenzhen by using the random effect model (REM), this paper finds that the working time, shareholding situation, multi-position situation and educational background of the secretary of the board of directors have a positive impact on the internal environment, risk assessment, control activities, information and communication, and information disclosure quality of internal supervision. However, the gender of the secretary has little impact on the quality of such information disclosure. In addition, this paper also explores state-owned enterprises and gets the same results. It can be seen that the personal background of the secretary for the President has begun to play a role and the implementation of the secretary for the President system is gradually on the right track.

Keywords: corporate internal information, secretary of BOD.

JEL Classification: M14, M19

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Bingwei and Zhou, Guanglei, Secretary of Board of Directors and Corporate Internal Information: Evidence from Chinese Stock Market (June 22, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3632781 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3632781
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Renée Adams , B , Daniel Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of financial economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Moez Bennouri , Tawhid Chtioui , Haithem Nagati , Mehdi Nekhili
Female board directorship and firm performance: What really matters?
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 88 , p. 267 - 291 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Michael L Boorom , Jerry R Goolsby , Rosemary P Ramsey
Relational communication traits and their effect on adaptiveness and sales performance
Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science , volume 26 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Guohua Chi
Function orientation and system construction of internal control index of chinese listed companies
Management World , p. 172 - 173 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
789
RANK
552,669
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies