Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Women on Corporate Boards and Corporate Financial and Non-financial Performance: A Systematic Literature Review and Future Research Agenda

Nguyen, T.H.H., Ntim, C.G., & Malagila, J. (2020). ‘Women on corporate boards and corporate financial and non-financial performance: A systematic literature review and future research agenda’, International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming.

60 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2020

Thi Nguyen

University of Southampton Business School

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

John Kalimilo Malagila

University of Essex; Southampton Business School

Date Written: June 21, 2020

Abstract

This paper provides an up-to-date and comprehensive systematic literature review (SLR) of the existing research on women on corporate boards (WOCBs) and corporate financial and non-financial performance. The aim is to synthesise and extend current understanding of both the existing (i) theoretical (i.e., economic, psychological and social) perspectives and (ii) empirical evidence on the (a) multi-level (i.e., individual-, social-, firm- and country-level) antecedents of WOCBs, and (b) the effects that WOCBs have on a wide range of corporate financial and non-financial performance. We achieve this by adopting a three-step SLR approach to analyse/review one of the largest SLR datasets to be employed to date, consisting of 634 mixed, qualitative, quantitative and theoretical studies conducted in over 100 countries from more than 10 disciplines (e.g., accounting, finance, economics and governance) from 1981 to 2019 and published in 270 top-ranked journals. Our findings are as follows. First, a large number of existing studies are descriptive and/or they draw on single rather than multi-theoretical perspectives. Second, existing studies have focused on firm-level rather than country-level antecedents of WOCBs. Third, observable methodological limitations include the dearth of qualitative, mixed-methods and cross-cultural/country studies. Finally, we outline opportunities for future WOCBs research.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Women on Corporate Boards, Systematic Literature Review, Corporate Financial Performance, Corporate Non-financial Performance

JEL Classification: G3, G30, G34, G38, J16

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Thi Hong Hahn and Ntim, Collins G. and Malagila, John, Women on Corporate Boards and Corporate Financial and Non-financial Performance: A Systematic Literature Review and Future Research Agenda (June 21, 2020). Nguyen, T.H.H., Ntim, C.G., & Malagila, J. (2020). ‘Women on corporate boards and corporate financial and non-financial performance: A systematic literature review and future research agenda’, International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3632171
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
317 References
C Arena , A Cirillo , D Mussolino , I Pulcinelli , S Saggese , F Sarto
Women on board: Evidence from a masculine industry
Corporate Governance , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 339 - 356 Posted: 2015
Crossref
K W Artz , P M Norman , D E Hatfield , L B Cardinal
A longitudinal study of the impact of R&D, patents, and product innovation on firm performance
Journal of Product Innovation Management , volume 27 , issue 5 , p. 725 - 740 Posted: 2010
Crossref
T G Arun , Y E Almahrog , Ali Aribi , Z
Female directors and earnings management: Evidence from UK companies
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 39 , p. 137 - 146 Posted: 2015
Crossref
U Arzubiaga , T Iturralde , A Maseda , J Kotlar
Entrepreneurial orientation and firm performance in family SMEs: the moderating effects of family, women, and strategic involvement in the board of directors
International Entrepreneurship and Management Journal , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
482
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,859
RANK
135,498
13 Citations
317 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies