Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
National Culture, Corporate Governance and Corruption: A Cross-country Analysis

Boateng, A., Wang, Y., Ntim, C.G., & Glaister, K.W. (2020). National Culture, Corporate Governance and Corruption: A Cross-country Analysis. International Journal of Finance and Economics, Forthcoming.

47 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2020

Agyenim Boateng

Glasgow Caledonian University

Yan Wang

Leicester Business School, De Montfort University

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Keith Glaister

University of Sheffield

Date Written: June 21, 2020

Abstract

Drawing on institutional theory, we examine the impact of corporate governance (CG) on corruption. The interaction effects of national culture and CG on corruption are also examined. By employing a dataset of 149 countries, our baseline findings indicate that the quality of CG practices reduces the level of corruption. Findings also show that three cultural dimensions, namely, power distance, individualism and indulgence moderate the CG-corruption nexus. Our findings indicate that CG and national culture explain the level of corruption among societies, with national culture appearing to matter more than the quality of CG. Our findings remain unchanged after controlling for endogeneities, country-level factors, CG and corruption proxies.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Corruption, Bribery, National Culture, Institutional Theory

JEL Classification: G3; G34; G38

Suggested Citation:

Boateng, Agyenim and Wang, Yan and Ntim, Collins G. and Glaister, Keith, National Culture, Corporate Governance and Corruption: A Cross-country Analysis (June 21, 2020). Boateng, A., Wang, Y., Ntim, C.G., & Glaister, K.W. (2020). National Culture, Corporate Governance and Corruption: A Cross-country Analysis. International Journal of Finance and Economics, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3632204
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , J Robinson , &amp; Y Thaicharoen
Institutional causes, macroeconomic symptoms: Volatility, crises and growth'
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 50 , p. 49 - 123 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M V Achim
Cultural dimension of corruption: A cross-country survey
International Advances in Economic Research , volume 22 , p. 333 - 345 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R V Aguilera , I Filatochev , H Gospel , &amp; G Jackson
An organisational approach to comparative corporate governance: Cost, contingencies, and complementarities
Organisation Science , volume 19 , p. 475 - 492 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Jackson Aguilera , G
The cross-national diversity of corporate governance: Dimensions and deteminants , volume 28 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,062
RANK
549,043
2 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies