Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Performance in Sports Organisations: The Case of UK Premier Leagues

Malagila, J.K., Zalata, A.M., Ntim, C.G., and Elamer, A.A. (2020). Corporate Governance and Performance in Sports Organisations: The Case of UK Premier Leagues. International Journal of Finance and Economics, Forthcoming.

31 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2020

John Kalimilo Malagila

University of Essex; Southampton Business School

Alaa Zalata

University of Southampton - Southampton Business School

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Date Written: June 21, 2020

Abstract

A considerable amount of accounting, economics and finance studies have investigated the link between corporate governance (CG) and performance in profit and non-profit organisations. This paper departs from the existing literature by investigating the relationship between CG structures and both financial performance (FP, measured as return on assets (ROA) and equity (ROE)) and non-financial performance, measured as league points won (NFP-Points), of sports organisations with specific focus on UK premier leagues’ football (soccer) teams.We collect data relating to CG structures, FP and NFP-Points of football clubs playing in the four UK premier leagues in England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales along with the English Championship teams over the 2011-2016 period. We analyse our data relating to 80 football clubs over a 6-year period (generating 397 club-year observations) by running a number of multivariate analyses to test our hypotheses. Our findings are as follows. First, we find that NFP-Points is higher in clubs with larger boards, non-executive directors (NED), CEO role duality, and higher percentage of foreign and/or younger directors, but lower in firms with higher percentage of female directors. Second and by contrast, we find that the relationship between these same set of variables and FP is, however, insignificant except for boards with NED that remained significant and negatively related to ROA. Our findings appear to reflect the prioritisation of on-the-field performance over off-the-field performance by sports organisations. Our evidence is largely robust to using alternative measures and estimation models.

Keywords: economics and finance; corporate governance and performance; popular sport organisations; football/soccer; premier leagues; UK

JEL Classification: G3; G34; G38

Suggested Citation:

Malagila, John and Zalata, Alaa and Ntim, Collins G. and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed, Corporate Governance and Performance in Sports Organisations: The Case of UK Premier Leagues (June 21, 2020). Malagila, J.K., Zalata, A.M., Ntim, C.G., and Elamer, A.A. (2020). Corporate Governance and Performance in Sports Organisations: The Case of UK Premier Leagues. International Journal of Finance and Economics, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3632180
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,297
RANK
293,623
2 Citations
129 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies