Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Female Directors' Monitoring and Major Shareholders' Tunneling: Evidence from Chinese Stock Market

30 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2020

Guanglei Zhou

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - Chinese Academy of Finance and Development

Mingfa Ding

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - Chinese Academy of Finance and Development

Date Written: March 31, 2019

Abstract

There are few studies on whether female directors can restrain the tunneling behavior of major shareholders in the Chinese stock market. Based on the analysis of the proportion and independence of female directors, this paper uses the fixed-effect model to analyze the impact of female directors on tunneling behavior of large shareholders in the board of directors, and further studies the difference of this impact between companies with different forms of ownership, and makes an empirical test with the data of A-share listed companies in China from 2008 to 2017. It is found that female directors and independent directors have an inhibitory effect on the tunneling of large shareholders in listed companies, and this effect is more significant in state-owned enterprises than in non-state-owned enterprises. Therefore, only by focusing on the allocation of the proportion of men and women on the board of directors, improving the incentive mechanism and employment system, and continuing to strengthen supervision, can we strengthen the interests of major shareholders, management and minority shareholders, and can effectively improve corporate governance.

Keywords: female shareholders; tunneling; ownership form

JEL Classification: M14, M19

Suggested Citation:

Zhou, Guanglei and Ding, Mingfa, Female Directors' Monitoring and Major Shareholders' Tunneling: Evidence from Chinese Stock Market (March 31, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3632285 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3632285
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of financial economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M L Ambrose , M Schminke
Sex differences in business ethics: The importance of perceptions
Journal of Managerial Issues , volume 11 Posted: 1999
K.-H Bae , J.-K Kang , J.-M Kim
Tunneling or value added? evidence from mergers by korean business groups
The Journal of Finance , volume 57 , p. 2695 - 2740 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M Bennedsen , D Wolfenzon
The balance of power in closely held corporations
Journal of financial economics , volume 58 , p. 113 - 139 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
701
RANK
765,896
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies