Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the CEO’s Personal Narcissism on Non-GAAP Earnings

The Accounting Review https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2017-0612

53 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2020 Last revised: 24 Aug 2020

Ahmed M. Abdel-Meguid

The American University in Cairo - School of Business

Jared N. Jennings

Washington University in St. Louis

Kari Olsen

Utah Valley University

Mark T. Soliman

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Date Written: June 5, 2020

Abstract

Non-GAAP earnings provide managers the flexibility to exclude GAAP items to either produce a more informative performance measure or provide them the ability to opportunistically exclude recurring expenses from non-GAAP earnings. Prior literature examines the use of this form of disclosure at the firm level, although it is ultimately management’s decisions. We extend prior non-GAAP literature by examining whether the use and quality of non-GAAP earnings is influenced by CEO personality traits; namely CEO narcissism. We find narcissistic CEOs are more likely to exclude expenses from non-GAAP earnings and that the magnitude of exclusions is greater. We also find that those non-GAAP exclusions are more persistent, and thus lower quality. Our results shed light on the disclosure practice of non-GAAP earnings and show how narcissistic CEOs are more likely to take advantage of the discretion in financial reporting disclosures in order to benefit the firm and themselves.

Keywords: Non-GAAP earnings, Earnings persistence, Narcissism, Executive personality traits

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Abdel-Meguid, Ahmed M. and Jennings, Jared N. and Olsen, Kari and Soliman, Mark T., The Impact of the CEO’s Personal Narcissism on Non-GAAP Earnings (June 5, 2020). The Accounting Review https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2017-0612, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3634238 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3634238
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,003
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,644
RANK
52,127
24 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies