Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Short Selling: A Review of the Literature and Implications for Future Research

52 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2020

Haiyan Jiang

Macquarie University

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Mostafa Monzur Hasan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 24, 2019

Abstract

This systematic literature review critically analyzes studies on the determinants of short selling and the implications for information distribution, real economic decisions, financial reporting, and external auditing. We select and review studies within a research framework, identifying two of the most important areas in the literature: short sellers as important information intermediaries and short sellers’ influence on accounting, auditing, and other corporate decisions as the ‘spillover effect’ of the information distribution. Of the two, the former has a strong emphasis on financial markets, whereas the latter extends this traditional topic in finance to financial economics, corporate governance, and accounting. Our review highlights that, although short sellers use both private information and public information in selecting stocks for shorting, we know little about how they use private and non-financial information to influence managerial economic decisions and firms’ financial reporting decisions. In discussing potential future research, we emphasize that penetrating the information ‘black box’ and positioning research regarding the information that short sellers use and how they use it are necessary to advance the short-selling literature.

Keywords: Short selling; Information intermediaries; Financial reporting; Corporate decisions

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Haiyan and Habib, Ahsan and Monzur Hasan, Mostafa, Short Selling: A Review of the Literature and Implications for Future Research (December 24, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3634310 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3634310
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
28 Citations
Siyu Zhang
Short seller report and stock performance Empirical evidence from US-listed Chinese firms
BCP Business & Management , volume 36 , p. 507 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Wenzhen Mai , Nik Intan Norhan binti Abdul Hamid
Short-Selling and Financial Performance of SMEs in China: The Mediating Role of CSR Performance
International Journal of Financial Studies , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 22 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Keqi Chen , Yuehan Wang , Xiaoquan Zhu
The Value of Information in the China’s Connected Market
58 Pages · Posted: 29 Jun 2019 · Last revised: 12 Feb 2023 · Downloads: 492
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Beatriz Garcia Osma , Cristina Grande-Herrera
The Role of Users’ Engagement in Shaping Financial Reporting: Should Activists Target Accounting More?
Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming · 52 Pages · Posted: 25 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 27 Apr 2021 · Downloads: 248
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
978
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,197
RANK
53,992
28 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies