Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effective Boards of Directors: A New Approach

Journal of Corporate Finance Research, Vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 120-130 (2019)

11 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2020

Igor Belikov

Government of the Russian Federation

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

The goal of this study is essentially twofold. First, it seeks to improve the efficiency of management in Russian companies through a revitalisation of perspectives on the makeup and activity of boards of directors. Second, it seeks to develop a motivation among controlling shareholders to strengthen the actual role of such boards in managing companies. This combined approach is intended to be applicable to both public and private companies.

The objective of this study is to search for ways to refocus on standard recommendations for international best practice regarding the work of boards of directors. These recommendations should consider best practices in terms of general company control and supervision, the in-depth study of key business processes, management innovations, technologies, and tools to promote new management approaches. A feature of this investigation will be the identification of ideas to ensure the best paths towards overcoming psychological barriers that impede the adoption of innovative and novel ideas by management.

This article provides a comparative analysis of the classic Anglo-US model of corporate governance (which features the role of boards of directors as the body exercising control and supervision over the company’s activities and its management), with the Russian model. The Russian model is characterised by a structure which nominally replicates the practice of developed countries, whereby the real power rests with the controlling shareholders and management, with the boards playing a secondary role by approving the plans of the company activities and their results.

Given this situation, the boards of directors of Russian companies should prove their capability to contribute to the creation of economic value. Examples of essential management areas in which boards of directors should implement the function of management development are: strategic planning, creating and improving competitiveness, building up and developing the company’s human capital, risk management, and internal control. This article suggests efficient practices and tools which can be used by a board of directors for management development.

Keywords: board of directors, controlling shareholders, management, business council, experience economy, company’s risk culture

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M14

Suggested Citation:

Belikov, Igor, Effective Boards of Directors: A New Approach (2019). Journal of Corporate Finance Research, Vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 120-130 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3634781
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
K.-A Bonnier , R F Bruner
An analysis of stock price reaction to management change in distressed firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 106 Posted: 1989
Crossref
J F Brett , W L Cron , J W Slocum
Economic dependency on work: A moderator of the relationship between organizational commitment and performance
Academy of Management Journal , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 261 - 271 Posted: 1995
Crossref
V Nazarova , A Kolykhalina
The impact of applying internal corporate governance mechanisms on the value of companies using diversification and focusing strategies. Corporate Finance , volume 12 , p. 7 - 26 Posted: 2018
Crossref
T Ambardnishvili , I Berezinets , Yu Iliina , M Smirnov
Board of Directors and dividend policy in Russian companies with direct state participation. Corporate Finance , volume 11 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
714
RANK
592,557
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies