Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information and Accounting Support for Accounts Receivable Management

8 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2020

Sergey Krylov

Ural Federal University - Graduate School of Economics and Management

Date Written: June 25, 2020

Abstract

The article explores the subject of information and accounting solutions for accounts receivable management that include appropriate accounting solutions and analytical techniques. The study focuses on the statutory framework for accounting for accounts receivable under the Russian Accounting Standards (RAP), International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The analytical techniques are described in the context of the authors' view on the essence of accounts receivable management that implies analysis, the establishment of a credit policy and of a discount policy. The article places emphasis on the use of available information technology for accounts payable management, such as blockchain-based smart contracts.

Keywords: information and accounting support, accounts receivable, management, business

JEL Classification: G30, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Krylov, Sergey, Information and Accounting Support for Accounts Receivable Management (June 25, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3635413 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3635413
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
J Van Horne , J M Wachowicz
Fundamentals of Financial Management Posted: 2008
United Pearson , Kingdom
Crossref
N N Lysheva , S I Krylov
Analiz Finansovoy Otchetnosti Posted: 2015
Finansy I Moscow , Statistika
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
992
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,410
RANK
52,962
2 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies