Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Social Networks, Trust, and Security Issuances

The European Journal of Finance, Forthcoming

81 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2020

Ming Fang

Martin Tuchman School of Management, New Jersey Institute of Technology

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Zenu Sharma

St John's University; Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute

An Yan

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Date Written: June 24, 2020

Abstract

We observe that public firms are more likely to issue seasoned stocks rather than bonds when theirs boards are more socially-connected. These connected issuers experience better announcement-period stock returns and attract more institutional investors. This social-connection effect is stronger for firms with severe uncertainty in future performance, higher risk of being undersubscribed, and higher visibility to investors. Our conjecture is that this social-network effect is driven by trust from investors in issuing firms. Given stocks are more sensitive to trust, these trusted firms are more likely to issue stocks than bonds. Trustworthiness plays an important role in firms’ security issuances in capital markets.

Keywords: Social Networks; Security Issuance; Trust; Capital Markets

JEL Classification: L14; M14; J15; Z10; O16

Suggested Citation:

Fang, Ming and Hasan, Iftekhar and Sharma, Zenu and Yan, An, Firm Social Networks, Trust, and Security Issuances (June 24, 2020). The European Journal of Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3635043
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
M Mcpherson , L Smith-Lovin , J M Cook
Birds of a feather: homophily in social networks
Annual Review of Sociology , volume 27 , p. 415 - 444 Posted: 2001
Crossref
D P Miller
The market reaction to international cross-listings: evidence from depositary receipts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 51 , p. 103 - 123 Posted: 1999
Crossref
B D Nguyen
Does the rolodex matter? Corporate elite's small world and the effectiveness of boards of directors
Management Science , volume 58 , p. 236 - 252 Posted: 2012
Crossref
B Nooteboom
Social capital, institutions and trust
Review of Social Economy , volume 65 , p. 29 - 53 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
679
RANK
653,768
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies