Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Accounting Enforcement on Earnings Quality of Banks: Implications of Bank Regulation and the Global Financial Crisis

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 37, No. 5, 2018

Posted: 20 Jul 2020

Lorenzo Dal Maso

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Kiridaran (Giri) Kanagaretnam

York University - Schulich School of Business

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Simone Terzani

University of Perugia - Department of Economics

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

We study the effects of country-level accounting enforcement on earnings quality of banks and whether bank regulation substitutes or complements the effect of accounting enforcement on bank earnings quality. We also examine whether the influence of accounting enforcement on bank earnings quality changed after the global financial crisis. Using a sample of listed banks from 40 countries between 2001 and 2014, and abnormal loan loss provisions (ALLP) as our main proxy for earnings quality, we document a consistent and strong association between accounting enforcement and bank earnings quality. More specifically, an increase in accounting enforcement decreases the level of ALLP and decreases the propensity to manage earnings to avoid losses. Furthermore, we provide empirical evidence that bank regulation complements the effect of accounting enforcement on bank earnings quality. Finally, unlike in the pre-crisis period, we find a positive association between accounting enforcement and income-decreasing ALLP in the post-crisis period, which indicates that stronger accounting enforcement is associated with more conservative earnings and higher loan loss reserves. Our results indicate that accounting enforcement reduces opportunistic earnings management.

Keywords: Accounting enforcement, Bank regulation, Earnings quality, Loan loss provisions, Earnings benchmarks, Global financial crisis

JEL Classification: G34, G38, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Dal Maso, Lorenzo and Kanagaretnam, Kiridaran and Lobo, Gerald J. and Terzani, Simone, The Influence of Accounting Enforcement on Earnings Quality of Banks: Implications of Bank Regulation and the Global Financial Crisis (2018). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 37, No. 5, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3636254
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
508
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies