Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Characteristics, External Governance and the Use of Renewable Energy: International Evidence From Public Firms

55 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2020

Dayong Zhang

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - Research Institute of Economics & Management

Zhiwei Zhang

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - Research Institute of Economics & Management

Qiang Ji

Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) - Institute of Policy and Management

Brian M. Lucey

Trinity Business School, Trinity College Dublin

Jia Liu

University of Salford

Date Written: June 26, 2020

Abstract

Adoption of renewable energy is one of the most important steps taken to cope with global warming and achieve sustainability. While its supply has seen a global boom, the adoption of renewable energy from the critical demand side faces clear challenges. This paper investigates firms’ use of renewable energy, paying special attention to factors in internal corporate governance and external governance. Based on 1,027 listed companies in 47 countries or regions, we show statistically significant evidence that both internal and external governance matter for firms’ adoption of renewable energy. We also find significant interactions between internal and external factors. Specifically, board duality and higher executive share reduce renewable energy adoption, strong external governance increases renewable energy adoption, and firms in common law systems tend to use fewer renewables. Our results are robust to different specifications, which allows us to tell an international demand-side story to complement the narrative on supply.

Keywords: Board characteristics; Corporate governance; External governance; Legal origin; Renewable energy

JEL Classification: G3, K2, Q2

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Dayong and Zhang, Zhiwei and Ji, Qiang and Lucey, Brian M. and liu, jia, Board Characteristics, External Governance and the Use of Renewable Energy: International Evidence From Public Firms (June 26, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3636181 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3636181
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,278
RANK
478,373
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies