Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Accounting Enforcement Related to Risk-Taking in the Banking Industry?

Journal of Financial Stability, Vol. 49, August 2020

Posted: 20 Jul 2020 Last revised: 10 Aug 2020

Lorenzo Dal Maso

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Kiridaran (Giri) Kanagaretnam

York University - Schulich School of Business

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Francesco Mazzi

University of Florence - Department of Business Economics

Date Written: June 1, 2020

Abstract

Using a sample of banks from 36 countries, we document that accounting enforcement is negatively related to bank risk-taking. We also provide evidence that accounting enforcement enhances bank stability during the crisis. In addition, we show that banks assume less risk through more conservative lending decisions and a reduction in complexity in jurisdictions with higher accounting enforcement. Our results show that formal institutions such as accounting enforcement are associated with bank financial decisions and risk-taking behavior.

Keywords: Accounting Enforcement, Bank Risk-taking, Bank Complexity, Bank Reporting Discretion.

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dal Maso, Lorenzo and Kanagaretnam, Kiridaran and Lobo, Gerald J. and Mazzi, Francesco, Is Accounting Enforcement Related to Risk-Taking in the Banking Industry? (June 1, 2020). Journal of Financial Stability, Vol. 49, August 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3636243
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
574
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies