Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Responding to Activist Short Sellers: Allegations, Firm Responses, and Outcomes

56 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2020 Last revised: 22 Feb 2021

Janja Brendel

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)

James Ryans

London Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 21, 2020

Abstract

This study provides descriptive evidence on how firms respond to activist short seller reports and how these responses are associated with outcomes for the targeted firms. We show that the frequency of these reports has grown substantially in recent years. While we find that firms respond only 31% of the time, this rate increases substantially when the report is accompanied by significantly negative abnormal returns and when the report contains new evidence. Not responding is associated with a less negative stock price response at report release and fewer adverse outcomes. Firms that launch internal investigations following the report release have significantly higher subsequent rates of stock exchange delisting and SEC enforcement actions, and lower rates of being acquired. Overall, our results highlight the impact of activist short sellers on target firms and that firm responses are associated with material outcomes.

Keywords: activist short sellers; internal investigations; fraud; voluntary disclosure; delisting; restatements

JEL Classification: D82; G14; G34; M41; M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Brendel, Janja and Ryans, James, Responding to Activist Short Sellers: Allegations, Firm Responses, and Outcomes (February 21, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3636236 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3636236
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
A Dyck , A Morse , L Zingales
Who blows the whistle on corporate fraud?
The journal of SHUMWAY , volume 52 , p. 327 - 340 Posted: 1997
Crossref
J P Walsh
Doing A Deal: Merger and Acquisition Negotiations and Their Impact Upon Target Company Top Management Turnover
Strategic Management Journal , volume 10 , p. 307 - 322 Posted: 1989
Crossref
L Zuo
The Informational Feedback Effect of Stock Prices on Management Forecasts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 61 , p. 391 - 413 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,387
RANK
43,879
23 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies