Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Practice, Net Income Growth and Net Profit Margin: Evidence from Selected Commercial Banks in an Emerging Economy in Sub Saharan Africa – Nigeria

Asian Journal of Advanced Research and Reports, 11(3), 1-15, 2020

15 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2020

Benson Aisagbonbuomwan Esan

University of Benin

Amalachukwu Ananwude

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Banking and Finance

John Nonso Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University Awka

Date Written: June 20, 2020

Abstract

This study presents a re-examination of how net income growth and net profit margin of selected commercial banks quoted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) are affected by corporate governance practice for the period 2005 to 2017. The Panel Ordinary Least Square (POLS) was employed to determine the relationship between corporate governance practice, net income growth and net profit margin of commercial banks, while the granger causality technique was followed in evaluating the effect of corporate governance variables on net income growth and net profit margin. After performing the analysis, we found that it is only age of the board as a corporate governance variable that significantly affect net profit margin of selected commercial banks. With respect to the banks’ specific fundamentals, it was the debt structure that significantly influenced net profit margin. We concluded hereby that corporate governance practice has little effect in predicting net income growth and net profit margin of commercial banks quoted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange on the argument that it is only the board age that influenced net profit margin significantly. We are of the opinion and still maintain that appointment into the board should be on the bases of age and experience not on friendship or relation. A young vibrant mind with skills and required experience can bring a lot of innovative ideas that is capable of even skyrocketing profitability to the amazement of shareholders. This is not to say that elderliness is an incapacitating factor in that regard.

Keywords: Corporate governance; profitability; commercial banks; profit margin; Nigeria

Suggested Citation:

Esan, Benson Aisagbonbuomwan and Ananwude, Amalachukwu and Okoye, John Nonso, Corporate Governance Practice, Net Income Growth and Net Profit Margin: Evidence from Selected Commercial Banks in an Emerging Economy in Sub Saharan Africa – Nigeria (June 20, 2020). Asian Journal of Advanced Research and Reports, 11(3), 1-15, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3636525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
D A Abdulazeez , M M Adeyeye , L Ndibe , M D Yahaya
Corporate governance and financial performance of listed deposit money banks in Nigeria
Journal of Business and Management , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 4 - 11 Posted: 2016
O R Uwuigbe
Corporate governance and financial performance of banks: A study of listed banks in Nigeria. A doctoral thesis Covenant University Posted: 2011
O A Ajala , T Amuda , L Arulogun
Evaluating the effect of corporate governance on the performance of Nigerian banking sector
Review of Contemporary Business Research , volume 1 , p. 32 - 42 Posted: 2012
P K Adigwe , I O Nwanna , E I John
Effect of corporate governance mechanism on the financial performance of banks in Nigeria
NG-Journal of Social Development , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 41 - 50 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
676
RANK
467,197
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies