Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fostering Enabling Perceptions of Management Controls During Post-Acquisition Integration

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

69 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2020

Marjo Väisänen

University of Oulu

Sophie Tessier

HEC Montreal

Janne Järvinen

University of Oulu

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 27, 2020

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to increase our understanding of how enabling perceptions of new management controls (MCs) can be fostered. We present a case study of an acquisition where the acquirer faces pressure to impose rigid controls on the acquired firm, who, in turn faces a massive restructuring and formalization of its controls. This study examines the response to new inflexible MCs implemented in a top down manner and the factors contributing to enabling perceptions. It shows that positive interpersonal relationships, and mutual trust between the acquirer and acquiree, facilitated enabling perceptions of the MCs. We show that managers actively fostered trust and communicated their intentions behind the design of controls. This helped employees rationalize the controls as tools to help them do their work tasks, i.e. enabling, rather than as a sign of mistrust, i.e. coercive. Positive interpersonal relationships reinforced by regular meetings were a way of providing employees assistance to deal with the problems they encountered through the rigidity of the new controls. This study contributes to the literature on enabling controls by proposing a processual framework based on trust-building activities that facilitates enabling perceptions among the employees. Thus, the study further develops our understanding of the relationship between enabling control and trust.

Keywords: Management Control, Management Accounting, Enabling and Coercive, Case Studies, Trust, Mergers & Acquisitions

JEL Classification: M10, M40

Suggested Citation:

Väisänen, Marjo and Tessier, Sophie and Järvinen, Janne, Fostering Enabling Perceptions of Management Controls During Post-Acquisition Integration (June 27, 2020). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3637874 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3637874
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
864
RANK
572,087
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies