Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Separation of Voting and Control: The Role of Contract in Corporate Governance

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 20-031

54 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2020 Last revised: 9 Jun 2021

Gabriel V. Rauterberg

University of Michigan Law School

Date Written: June 28, 2020

Abstract

The default rules of corporate law make shareholders’ control rights a function of their voting power. Whether a director is elected or a merger is approved depends on how shareholders vote. Yet, in private corporations, shareholders routinely alter their rights by contract. This phenomenon of shareholder agreements—contracts among the owners of a firm—has received far less attention than it deserves, mainly because detailed data about the actual contents of shareholder agreements has been lacking. Private companies disclose little, and shareholder agreements are thought to play a trivial or nonexistent role in public companies.

I show that this is false—15% of corporations that go public in recent years do so subject to a shareholder agreement. With this dataset in hand, I show the dramatic extent to which these shareholders redefine their control rights by contract. Shareholders restrict the sale of shares and waive aspects of the duty of loyalty. Above all, however, shareholders use their agreements to bargain with each other over votes for directors, and to bargain with the corporation itself for other control rights, such as vetoes over major corporate actions. In essence, while statutory corporate law makes control rights a function of voting power, shareholder agreements make control rights a function of contract instead, separating voting and control.

Studying this phenomenon raises new questions of doctrine, theory, and empirics that go to foundational issues in corporate law. Is it desirable to let shareholders redesign corporate control rights wholesale by contract? What should be the law that governs their contracts when they do so? I provide a novel account of shareholder agreements’ use in public firms, before offering preliminary views on their welfare effects, implications for corporate theory, and on their governing law, which remains strikingly underdeveloped.

Keywords: Shareholder agreements, Corporate governance, Contracts, Control Rights

JEL Classification: K22, L22, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Rauterberg, Gabriel V., The Separation of Voting and Control: The Role of Contract in Corporate Governance (June 28, 2020). U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 20-031, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3637204 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3637204
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Quickturn Design , Sys
Crossref
Section 141(a) . . . confers upon any newly elected board of directors full power to manage and direct the business and affairs of a Delaware corporation
A.2d at 1291. Id. at 1292
Id
A.2d Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
6 Citations
Mehdi Sadaghiani , Mehdi Mohammadi , Ali Ebrahimnejad
An Analysis of Venture Capital Contracts in Iran
Journal of Finance , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 73 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Naomi R. Lamoreaux , Jean-Laurent Rosenthal
Do Entrepreneurs Want Control? And Should They Get What They Want? A Historical and Theoretical Exploration
NBER Working Paper No. w31106 · 56 Pages · Posted: 10 Apr 2023 · Last revised: 30 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 23
 Add To Cart  Add Paper to My Library
Ria Sen
Private Equity, Private Ordering, and the Stealth Dual Class
47 Pages · Posted: 31 May 2024 · Downloads: 147
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
David J. Denis , Yuxiao Huang , Gaurav Jetley , Hailey Nguyen
Controller-Induced Depression -Possible but Not Expected
U of Penn, Inst for Law &amp; Econ Research Paper No. 24-37 · 63 Pages · Posted: 14 Dec 2024 · Last revised: 30 Apr 2025 · Downloads: 178
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,096
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,450
RANK
46,009
6 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies