Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO political ideology and voluntary forward-looking disclosure

Forthcoming, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis

96 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2020 Last revised: 4 Mar 2024

Ahmed Elnahas

The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley

Lei Gao

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Md Noman Hossain

California State University Fullerton

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Date Written: June 28, 2020

Abstract

This study investigates whether and, if so, how the information disclosure preferences differ systematically between Republican CEOs and Democrat CEOs in the context of management earnings forecasts. We find that Republican CEOs tend to prefer a less asymmetric information environment than Democrat CEOs, and thus make more frequent, timelier, and more accurate disclosures than Democrat CEOs. Results using the propensity score matched sample and the difference-in-differences analysis show that our results are unlikely to be driven by potential endogeneity. Our results are robust to controlling for various CEO characteristics, including personal characteristics, compensation incentives, overconfidence, and managerial ability, and are stronger for firms with higher levels of institutional ownership and litigation risk.

Keywords: CEO Political Ideology; Management Earnings Forecasts; Conservatism; Information disclosure; Republican versus Democrat.

JEL Classification: D82, M41, P16, G34, G40

Suggested Citation:

Elnahas, Ahmed and Gao, Lei and Hossain, Md Noman and Kim, Jeong-Bon, CEO political ideology and voluntary forward-looking disclosure (June 28, 2020). Forthcoming, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3637608 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3637608
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
K R Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
J. Financial Econ , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
J. Account. Res , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
J R Alford , C L Funk , J R Hibbing
Are political orientations genetically transmitted?
Am. Political Sci. Rev , volume 99 , issue 2 , p. 153 - 167 Posted: 2005
U Ali , D Hirshleifer
Opportunism as a firm and managerial trait: Predicting insider trading profits and misconduct
J. Financial Econ , volume 126 , p. 490 - 515 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
678
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,866
RANK
88,127
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies