Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Dividend Policy on Investors’ Preferences on Nigeria’s Capital Market

15 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2020

Morrison Jostus Turakpe

Kenule Saro Wiwa Polytechnic - Department of Banking and Finance

Date Written: June 28, 2020

Abstract

In the world of investment, making a good decision could be equated to making good profit, and this has led to the issue around dividend policy which has attracted the attentions of investors and researchers over the years. This study investigated the impact of dividend policy on investors’ preferences on Nigeria's capital market. Specifically, the study investigated the relationship between dividend per share, dividend yield, earnings per share and share price as measures for dividend policy, with equity ratio as a measure for investors preferences. Using quasi experimental design, secondary data were sourced from NSE closure of register and the financial reports of 12 firms listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange for the period 2009-2019. Four hypotheses on the relationship between dividend per share, dividend yield, earnings per share and share price with equity ratio, were tested using the OLS regression analysis. The study found that all the independent variables except share price are negatively and insignificantly related to equity ratio. Nevertheless, the independent variables have combined positive and significant relationship with equity ratio. Therefore, it is concluded that dividend policy impacts on investor’s preferences but not without some other external effects. It is therefore recommended that firms should pay attention to their dividend policy especially share price; give detailed information on their dividend policy through their annual report; and investors should look beyond share price to observe other dividend policy variables that may give them information on the future of the stock of interest.

Suggested Citation:

Turakpe, Morrison Jostus, The Impact of Dividend Policy on Investors’ Preferences on Nigeria’s Capital Market (June 28, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3637446 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3637446
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
R Aazam , K Vali
The study on the relationship between institutional ownership structure and board characteristics with dividend policy in listed companies in Tehran Stock Exchange
International Journal of Management and Humanity Sciences , volume 3 , issue 12 , p. 3673 - 3683 Posted: 2014
S Abubakar
Dividend payout ratio and share price movement of listed non-service firms in Nigeria: Empirical study
Managerial Finance , volume 37 , issue 1 , p. 202 - 211 Posted: 2012
J O Adelegan
Price reactions to dividend policy changes on the Nigerian Stock Market
African Economic Research Consortium , volume 13 , p. 188 - 124 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S L Adeyemi , A A Adewale
Evaluation of the dividend practices among selected Nigerian quoted firms
Acme Journal of Management and Social Science Research , volume 1 , p. 1 - 7 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
578
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,157
RANK
108,729
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies