Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance Audit in Construction Organisations: Relevant Criteria and Analytical Procedures

Journal of Corporate Finance Research, Vol. 13, No. 2, pp. 81-103 (2019)

23 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2020

Bibigul Amanzholova

Novosibirsk State Technical University (NSTU)

Viktoria Karakchieva

Novosibirsk State Technical University (NSTU)

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

Performance audit is becoming increasingly ubiquitous in commercial and business spheres internationally. Due to its important role in promoting efficient organisational and administrative practices, performance audit is becoming a subject more rigorously analised in the academic sphere.
This study seeks to develop and test analytical tools of performance audit in Russian construction organisations. We place emphasis on the industry-specific dimensions of information disclosure. We intend to offer a solution to several crucial challenges in the field, which will allow for the development of a comprehensive method to implement analytical procedures. This is done with a view towards obtaining and collating sufficient and adequate audit evidence to help achieve business goals.
In order to devise a consistent methodology, first, a link is highlighted between construction industry constraints and performance audit criteria. Second, an algorithm is developed to carry out comparative integrated estimation of performance audit criteria in order to shortlist relevant indicators. Third, the algorithm is tested using financial reporting of selected construction companies, which makes it possible to build a consistent system of performance audit criteria
and identify a reliable set of controlled parameters.
A profile of practical analytical procedures, performance audit criteria and measurement indicators is formed through financial and performance audit and imbedded statistical methods. Implementing this approach will be seen to close some information gaps commonly found in the reporting data of construction industry, as it links the subject area of performance audit and the objective criteria of effectiveness, efficiency and economy.
The findings are presented with reference to existing statistical surveys on construction industry constraints. While recent studies provide a broader picture across construction industry, they do not address its regional aspects. As such, within this study we have carried out estimates of performance indicators for construction companies operating in the Novosibirsk region. The estimates are based on the information available through Professional Market and Company Analysis System. As a result, a system of performance audit criteria is identified in relation to the dimensions of effectiveness, efficiency and economy and a framework of controlled parameters is shaped. The level of disclosure concerning these parameters presented in a company’s reporting is supposed to determine the decisions of stakeholders and potential investors.
In consideration of further research, this study highlights that it is necessary to identify and validate performance criteria in view of the fact that only few construction companies are profitable. The mix of qualitative and quantitative analytical procedures demonstrated herein is an effective approach to address the challenges of information integrity assessment.
We consider that the most promising aspect of this study is the analysis of how the quality and amount of information disclosed in the reporting of construction companies affects their public image and business activities. This can be seen to have widespread industry and academic applications. Additionally, our approach represents a suitable framework for possible adaptation towards not only other industries, but also further development of the methodological approach
itself

Keywords: performance audit, effectiveness, efficiency, economy, construction organisations, statistical methods, analytical procedures, tax burden, cost of goods, material returns

JEL Classification: G32, M42, P17

Suggested Citation:

Amanzholova, Bibigul and Karakchieva, Viktoria, Performance Audit in Construction Organisations: Relevant Criteria and Analytical Procedures (2019). Journal of Corporate Finance Research, Vol. 13, No. 2, pp. 81-103 (2019) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3637056
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
M Alkebsi , Azman Aziz , K
Information technology usage, top management support and internal audit effectiveness
Asian Journal of Accounting & Governance. Special Issue , volume 8 , p. 123 - 132 Posted: 2017
Crossref
V Arnold
The changing technological environment and the future of behavioural research in accounting
Accounting & Finance , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 315 - 339 Posted: 2018
Crossref
C E Mullis , R C Hatfield
The effects of multitasking on auditors' judgment quality
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 314 - 333 Posted: 2018
Crossref
A Masiulevičius , V Lakis
Differentiation of performance materiality in audit based on business needs
Entrepreneurship and Sustainability Issues , volume 6 , issue 1 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
655
RANK
653,768
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies