Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examining Fifteen Years of Ethics Research in the Journal of Accountancy: 2002 to 2016

Asian Journal of Accounting and Governance, April 2018, Vol. 9: 41-48

9 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2020

Clarence Goh

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 2018

Abstract

In the past fifteen years, ethics has come under the spotlight in the accounting profession. In this study, I examine ethics research in accounting by looking at publications in the Journal of Accountancy, a leading professional journal in accounting, over the period from 2002 to 2016. I found that 32 out of 4,851 (0.66%) articles published in the journal were ethics-focused. Further, I observed spikes in the percentage of ethics-focused articles in the years 2003 and 2009/2010, following key events such as the passing of SOX and the global financial crisis. I also perform content analysis of the ethics-focused articles by categorizing them to one of four research areas: (1) code of conduct, (2) corporate culture, (3) ethical decision making, and (4) reputation management. Given that the majority of ethics-focused articles published relate to encouraging ethical behaviour among accounting professionals, my results suggest that such articles present a good source of information that accounting professionals can turn to when making decisions which have ethical implications. My study makes important contributions by providing insights into the overall proportion of ethics-focused articles that is published in the journal, and assesses the progress/evolution of ethics research over the time period. From a broader perspective, the findings in my study also add to the overall literature on business ethics by highlighting significant themes that accounting researchers have focused on. In addition, it provides insights into how ethics research has been incorporated into the area of accounting, particularly from a practice perspective. It also highlights four key areas of ethics research in accounting, and helps identify areas of future research.

Suggested Citation:

Goh, Clarence, Examining Fifteen Years of Ethics Research in the Journal of Accountancy: 2002 to 2016 (April 2018). Asian Journal of Accounting and Governance, April 2018, Vol. 9: 41-48, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3638909
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
C Allen
Comparing the ethics codes: AICPA and IFAC
Journal of Accountancy , issue 4 , p. 24 - 32 Posted: 2010
T J Berge
Has globalization increased the synchronicity of international business cycles?
Economic Review , issue 3 , p. 3 - 39 Posted: 2012
C E Bolt-Lee , J Moody
Highlights of finance and accounting ethics research
Journal of Accountancy , issue 4 , p. 38 - 41 Posted: 2010
C E Bolt-Lee , Y J Wu , A B Zimmerman
Highlights of ethics research
Journal of Accountancy , issue 6 , p. 34 - 39 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
802
RANK
826,677
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies