Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Outsourced Internal Audit Function: A Further Analysis

Baatwah, Saeed & Alqadasi, Adel. (2019). Determinants of Outsourced Internal Audit Function: A Further Analysis, Forthcoming

Posted: 21 Jul 2020

Adel Al-Qadasi

Shaqra University; Hodeidah University

Date Written: November 7, 2019

Abstract

The aim of this study is to investigate how the board of directors, audit committee (AC), external auditor and management explain the outsourced internal audit function (IAF) practice. Although prior studies provide some insights into the determinants of IAF, we have little understanding of how their characteristics are associated with outsourced IAF. Using 767 observations from an emerging market, we find that board independence and AC accounting expertise are negatively associated with outsourced IAF. We also observe a positive association between board expertise, AC independence, CEO with accounting expertise, and the size of the external audit firm and outsourced IAF. Corroborating these findings, additional tests show that the type of outsourced IAF provider, either big or non-big, plays a significant role in these associations. We also extend the recent literature on the governance role of an AC chair with accounting expertise and report that a chair with accounting expertise is associated with outsourced IAF if the provider is a big audit firm. These findings may serve a large number of stakeholders who are interested in audit practices.

Keywords: Outsourced IAF, Board of Directors, Audit Committee, Management, External Auditor, Emerging Market

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Al-Qadasi, Adel, Determinants of Outsourced Internal Audit Function: A Further Analysis (November 7, 2019). Baatwah, Saeed & Alqadasi, Adel. (2019). Determinants of Outsourced Internal Audit Function: A Further Analysis, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3638148
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
434
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies