Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Benefits of Acquired Versus Organic Tax-Haven Subsidiaries

Proceedings of Paris December 2021 Finance Meeting EUROFIDAI - ESSEC

63 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2020 Last revised: 13 Dec 2024

Jean-Marie Meier

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management; University of Pennsylvania - Finance Department

Jake Smith

Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)

Sorabh Tomar

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Accounting Department

Date Written: June 30, 2020

Abstract

Does a firm’s route into a tax haven affect the tax savings generated? For U.S. firms, forming a haven subsidiary via a “haven acquisition” is associated with a 3.8 percentage point reduction in the cash effective tax rate. In contrast, the reduction is 1.4 percentage points when the haven subsidiary is formed organically. Haven acquisitions that generate greater economic substance in tax havens yield larger tax savings. For non-U.S. firms, haven acquisitions reduce the cash effective tax rate more when the home country scores higher on proxies for government quality and the enforcement of securities laws is weaker. M&A announcement returns show that investors price the expected tax savings of haven acquisitions into stock prices, helping to rule out alternative explanations. Overall, our findings suggest that separately considering haven acquisitions is important when analyzing tax minimization strategies involving tax havens.

Keywords: Cross-border mergers and acquisitions, tax havens, tax haven subsidiaries, economic substance, tax avoidance, profit shifting

JEL Classification: G34, H26, H73, F23, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Meier, Jean-Marie and Smith, Jake and Tomar, Sorabh, The Tax Benefits of Acquired Versus Organic Tax-Haven Subsidiaries (June 30, 2020). Proceedings of Paris December 2021 Finance Meeting EUROFIDAI - ESSEC, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639640 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3639640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,726
RANK
38,237
6 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies