Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Attributes and Timeliness of Corporate Financial Reporting in Nigeria

Accounting and Finance, 88(2), 115-124, 2020

11 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2020

Hope Osayantin Aifuwa

Department of Accounting, Faculty of Management Sciences, University of Benin, Benin City

Musa Saidu

Kwara State University

Date Written: June 1, 2020

Abstract

In many studies the audit delay experienced in Nigeria firms attributes to external auditors. But this is not 100% true because before an external audit expresses an independent opinion on the financial statements, he needs to work with the internal auditor and audit committee of the organisation to successfully carry out the audit work. The audit committee particularly would help the external auditor enhance its timely reporting. The roles of an audit committee are to oversee the process of financial reporting, the work of the external auditor, and to strengthen the internal control of an organisation. Therefore, the audit committee effectiveness would help the external auditor reduce reporting lag and improve the timeliness of financial reports. Despite the establishment of a committee on audit in firms and the deadline set by the capital markets on annual financial reporting, reporting lag still exists. Against this backdrop, we investigated the impact of audit committee attributes on the timeliness of corporate financial reporting in Nigeria. A sample of one hundred and sixteen (116) listed firms on the Nigerian Stock Exchange from 2017 to 2018. We used descriptive and inferential statistics to summarize and draw inference on the population studied. The result from the Robust least squares regression revealed that audit committee independence and female directors in the audit committee reduces audit report lag, thus increases the timeliness of financial reporting. However,we found no evidence on the impact of audit committee diligence on the timeliness of financial reporting. We found out that there is a joint and positive effect of female directors on the nexus between audit committee independence and the timeliness of financial reporting. The study concluded that audit committee attributes affect the timeliness of corporate financial reporting in Nigeria.We recommend that firms should continue to sustain the culture of having non-executive directors in the audit committee to promote timely financial reporting.

Suggested Citation:

Aifuwa, Hope Osayantin and Saidu, Musa, Audit Committee Attributes and Timeliness of Corporate Financial Reporting in Nigeria (June 1, 2020). Accounting and Finance, 88(2), 115-124, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3640107
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
UNIMAS Review of Accounting and Finance , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 112
Crossref
• Al-Rassas , A H Kamardin , H
Earnings quality and audit attributes in high concentrated ownership market
Corporate Governance , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 377 - 399 Posted: 2016
Crossref
F M • Alshrife , I Subekti , Y Widya
The effect of audit committee characteristics on timeliness of financial reporting by using audit quality as the moderating variable: An empirical study form Indonesian manufacturing companies
The International Journal of Accounting and Business Society , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 80 Posted: 2016
K • Apadore , M M Noor , W K Armand , B L Handoko , Felicia
Determinants of audit report lag and corporate governance in Malaysia
International Journal of Business & Management , volume 8 , issue 15 , p. 35 - 44 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,387
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,291
RANK
32,645
2 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies