Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
All on Board? New Evidence on Board Characteristics from a Large Panel of UK FTSE Indices

Sustainability, 2020

26 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2020

Abdelrhman Yusuf

Edinburgh Business School

Mohamed Sherif

Edinburgh Business School

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

This study analyses whether the board characteristics (diversity attributes, competitive capital, time commitment) of companies listed on the Financial Times Stock Exchange FTSE100 exhibit a different performance compared to those associated with conventional benchmark indices (FTSE250, FTSE SMALLCAP (small capitalization), FTSE Fledgling, and FTSE All-Shar). Using multivariate analysis and unbalanced panel data over the period 2000−2014, we provide novel evidence on how the UK stock market indices react to diversity in board characteristics. Our findings reveal that different aspects of board characteristics are significantly correlated with the performance of FTSE indices. This study further confirms that boards with high levels of diversity maintain better and more effective levels of governance, in particular for companies listed on FTSE100 and FTSE250. Interestingly, we report that the competitive capital and busyness associated with boards of companies listed on FTSE100 have professional, well-educated, and socially connected boards, and show a clear pattern whereby boards become significantly less competitive as firm size decreases.

Suggested Citation:

Yusuf, Abdelrhman and Sherif, Mohamed, All on Board? New Evidence on Board Characteristics from a Large Panel of UK FTSE Indices (2020). Sustainability, 2020 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3640878
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
R Aggarwal , J D Schloetzer , R Williamson
Do Corporate Governance Mandates Impact Long-Term Firm Value and Governance Culture?
J. Corp. Financ , volume 59 , p. 202 - 217 Posted: 2019
Crossref
N M Brennan , N Subramaniam , C J Van Staden
Corporate Governance Implications of Disruptive Technology: An Overview
Br. Account. Rev , volume 51 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Alicia Adsera , Carles Boix , Mark Payne
Are You Being Served?: Political Accountability and Quality of Government
IDB Working Paper No. 368 Pages: 46 Posted: 21 Apr 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M A Thomas
What Do the Worldwide Governance Indicators Measure?
Eur. J. Dev. Res , volume 22 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
513
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies