Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Board of Directors on the Corporate Social Performance in the Indian Manufacturing Sector

Dhamotharan Dhanasekar , Murugesan Selvam , Venkatachalam Ramasamy , Sankarkumar Amirdhavasani , Vadivel Thanikachalam (2020) The Influence of Board of Directors on the Corporate Social Performance in the Indian Manufacturing Sector. Journal of Critical Reviews, 7 (12), 1050–1055.

6 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2020

Dhanasekar Dhamotharan

Department of Commerce and Financial Studies, Bharathidasan University

Murugesan Selvam

Department of Commerce and Financial Studies, Bharathidasan University

Amirdha Vasani Sankarkumar

Bharathidasan University

Date Written: July 1, 2020

Abstract

This paper aims to contribute, to the empirical evidence for the influence of Board of Directors on the Corporate Social Performance (CSP). A sample of top 10 companies of BSE, over the period from 2015 to 2019, was examined. The results indicated that the Board of Director influenced the Corporate Social Performance, measured by the CSR amount and the final performance of the firm, measured by Return on Assets. The Corporate Social Performance has a mediating role in the relation between the CSP and Board of Directors, in the manufacturing sector of India.

Suggested Citation:

Dhamotharan, Dhanasekar and Selvam, Murugesan and Sankarkumar, Amirdha Vasani, The Influence of Board of Directors on the Corporate Social Performance in the Indian Manufacturing Sector (July 1, 2020). Dhamotharan Dhanasekar , Murugesan Selvam , Venkatachalam Ramasamy , Sankarkumar Amirdhavasani , Vadivel Thanikachalam (2020) The Influence of Board of Directors on the Corporate Social Performance in the Indian Manufacturing Sector. Journal of Critical Reviews, 7 (12), 1050–1055., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3640086
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A B Carroll
The Pyramid of Corporate Social Responsibility: Toward the Moral Management of Organizational Stakeholders
Business Horizon , volume 34 , p. 39 - 48 Posted: 1991
Crossref
M E Clarkson
A Stakeholder Framework for Analyzing and Evaluating Corporate Social Performance , volume 20 , p. 92 - 117 Posted: 1995
Crossref
C S Crisan-Mitra , L Stanca , D C Dabija
Corporate Social Performance: An Assessment Model on an Emerging Market , volume 12 Posted: 2020
Crossref
D Dhanasekar , M Selvam , M Raja , J Gayathri
The Mediating Effect of Research and Development and Financial Resource on Corporate Social Performance in Asian Countries Companies
International Journal of Advanced Science and Technology , volume 29 , issue 4s , p. 1428 - 1437 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
501
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies