Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Across the Pond: How U.S. Firms’ Boards of Directors Adapted to the Passage of the GDPR

NYU Stern School of Business

51 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2020 Last revised: 17 Aug 2021

April Klein

New York University (NYU); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Raffaele Manini

Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF)

Yanting (Crystal) Shi

HEC Paris

Date Written: June 29, 2020

Abstract

One of the prime responsibilities of the board of directors is to understand and oversee its firm’s risk profile. We exploit a recent European Union (EU) regulation, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), as a quasi-exogenous shock to the cyber risk landscape to assess whether boards of U.S. firms changed their focus and governance structures to deal with this new challenge. Although an EU regulation, the GDPR applies to all American public firms with at least one EU user. Adopting a difference-in-differences methodology, we use firms previously regulated by the HIPAA as a control group, and find that boards of treated U.S. firms, on average, increase their focus on cyber risk, add more directors with cyber/IT expertise, and more frequently assign cyber risk oversight to the board or to a board committee. In cross-sectional tests, we show that these changes are positively associated with a firm’s ex ante cyber risk, but are unrelated to whether a firm had a large EU presence, suggesting a more global reaction to the GDPR. In addition, we examine some of the consequences of these board changes. We find boards that promptly responded by changing their board focus, expertise, and monitoring assignment of cyber risk around the passage of GDPR had fewer future cyber attack/data breaches and less related media attention. Our findings suggest that, on average, American corporate boards promptly responded to changes in the cyber risk environment.



Keywords: Board Resiliency, Corporate Governance, Corporations, GDPR

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Klein, April and Manini, Raffaele and Shi, Yanting, Across the Pond: How U.S. Firms’ Boards of Directors Adapted to the Passage of the GDPR (June 29, 2020). NYU Stern School of Business, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3640515 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3640515
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
K E Davis , F Marotta-Wurgler
Contracting for personal data
New York University Law Review , volume 94 , issue 4 , p. 662 - 705 Posted: 2019
M L Defond , R N Hann , X Hu
Does the market value financial expertise on audit committees of board of directors
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 2 , p. 153 - 193 Posted: 2005
Deloitte
On the board's agenda: US Cyber risk in the boardroom: Accelerating from acceptance to action Posted: 2018-02
G Dionne , O M Chun , T Triki
The governance of risk management: The importance of directors' independence and financial knowledge
Risk Management and Insurance Review , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 247 - 277 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
330
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,904
RANK
209,480
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies