Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pre-Public M&A Negotiations: How Does Bidding Competition Affect Deal Outcomes?

65 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2020 Last revised: 7 Feb 2022

Richard Schubert

Karlsruhe Institute of Technology - Institute for Finance; The University of Sydney Business School

Date Written: July 2, 2020

Abstract

This paper provides novel insights about competition among bidders during the whole takeover process, its effect on offered deal premiums, bidder announcement returns, and post-bid dynamics. Exploiting a representative sample of 780 public U.S. transactions, extended with comprehensive hand-collected data from SEC filings, I find that takeover premiums are higher, the higher pre-announcement competition among bidders is. I measure competition during the private sales process with a ratio that relates the number of bids submitted to the target to the number of signed confidentiality agreements with the target, the Proposals-to-CA-Ratio. A one-standard deviation increase of this ratio corresponds to a statistically and economically significant 5.99% increase of the deal initiation premium (Eaton, Liu, and Officer (2020)), 0.87% lower announcement returns for the winning bidder in auctions, a 130% increased probability of receiving a rival bid prior to closing, and a 44.5% increased probability of cancelling the originally announced deal (measured relative to the unconditional probability). The latter two results are more pronounced if the announcement returns of the acquirer are positive, suggesting that competing bidders are lured by potentially value-increasing deals. By applying Heckman (1979) two-stage selection models with instrumented regressors, I show that my results are robust to endogeneity concerns, especially to target’s decision to initiate the deal as well as the decision of the subsequent selling procedure (auction vs. one-to-one negotiation). The advantages of this competition measure are that (1) it relies on data as reported in target firm’s official merger documents filed with the SEC, which creates a strong incentive to report truthfully, and (2) it takes the evolution of bidding into account, controlling for the number of submitted bids. I conclude that competitive private negotiations stay competitive during the public phase of the deal, and that target boards fulfill their fiduciary duties by selecting the highest-bidding acquirer.

Keywords: Takeovers, Mergers and Acquisitions, Private Takeover Process, Bidding Competition, Auction, Negotiation, Takeover Premium, Announcement Returns

JEL Classification: G14, G24, G34

Suggested Citation:

Schubert, Richard, Pre-Public M&A Negotiations: How Does Bidding Competition Affect Deal Outcomes? (July 2, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3640480 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3640480
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Nihat Aktas , Eric De Bodt , Richard Roll
Negotiations under the threat of an auction
JOURNAL OF FINANCIAL ECONOMICS , volume 98 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 255 Posted: 2010
Gregor Andrade , Mark Mitchell , Erik Stafford
New Evidence and Perspectives on Mergers , volume 15 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
Jack Bao , Alex Edmans
Do Investment Banks Matter for M&A Returns?
REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STUDIES , volume 24 , issue 7 , p. 2286 - 2315 Posted: 2011
Lucian Bebchuk , Allen Ferrell
On takeover law and regulatory competition
BUSI-NESS LAWYER , volume 57 , p. 1047 - 1068 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,196
RANK
210,151
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies