Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
More is Less: Publicizing Information and Market Feedback

Review of Finance, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2020 Last revised: 30 Nov 2020

Andrew Bird

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros College of Business and Economics

Stephen A. Karolyi

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Thomas Ruchti

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Phong Truong

Pennsylvania State University

Date Written: Sep 18, 2020

Abstract

We study whether and how publicizing internal information affects the value of financial markets to the real economy. By publicizing corporate filings, the SEC’s EDGAR web platform reduces the cost of acquiring internal information for outsiders and so makes it relatively less attractive to gather external information. We find that the staggered introduction of EDGAR reduced the sensitivity of firm investment to prices, consistent with prices being less informative to managers due to the crowding out of external information gathering. This crowding out effect is stronger when outsiders’ incentives for gathering information are stronger and for firms that rely more on external information. Our findings suggest that policies designed to “level the playing field” by publicizing internal information can have significant unintended consequences by reducing the informativeness of prices for real decisions.

Keywords: EDGAR, real effects of financial markets, price efficiency, price informativeness, information acquisition, SEC regulation, information technology

JEL Classification: G10, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bird, Andrew and Karolyi, Stephen A. and Ruchti, Thomas and Truong, Phong, More is Less: Publicizing Information and Market Feedback (Sep 18, 2020). Review of Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3641837 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3641837
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
506
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,720
RANK
127,805
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies