Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Convergent and Divergent Trajectories of Corporate Governance

Competition and Change, 24(5), pp. 399-407, Forthcoming

16 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2020

David Gindis

University of Warwick - Warwick Law School

Jeroen Veldman

Nyenrode Business university

Hugh Christopher Willmott

City University London - The Business School; Cardiff Business School

Date Written: July 2, 2020

Abstract

This Special Issue revisits the classic question of comparative corporate governance research, namely whether national corporate governance systems are converging. More specifically, it focuses on several ‘convergence vectors’ which comprise the political, legal, economic and social arrangements that influence or drive the international trajectories of governance systems toward a common denominator. Taken together, the contributors to this Special Issue invite us to think critically about the functional explanations commonly mobilized in favor of convergence and consider instead the convergence debate from a broader and more interdisciplinary point of view.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Convergence, Divergence, Codes, Accounting Standards, Banking, Performativity

Suggested Citation:

Gindis, David and Veldman, Jeroen and Willmott, Hugh Christopher and Willmott, Hugh Christopher, Convergent and Divergent Trajectories of Corporate Governance (July 2, 2020). Competition and Change, 24(5), pp. 399-407, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3641440 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3641440
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
904
RANK
697,608
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies