Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comment Letters and Large Asset Transactions: Evidence From an Emerging Market

64 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2020

Shuo Yang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: July 1, 2020

Abstract

This paper investigates how communications between regulators and firms affect the outcomes of large asset transactions (“restructurings”) in China. Examining stock exchange-issued comment letters that target individual restructuring filings, I find that characteristics indicating controlling shareholders’ expropriation of minority shareholders are associated with the severity of comment letters (“Severity”). The market reacts negatively to Severity. Severity predicts voluntary deal cancellation by management, and indirectly increases the probability of deal withdrawal and lengthens the processing time for equity-funded deals through affecting the approving body’s scrutiny level. Severity is also associated with lower post-letter disclosure quality rating. Textual analysis reveals that more concerns about a disguised reverse takeover, appraisal valuation and target assets quality are the most impactful, and demand for more disclosures is associated with larger revisions to restructuring filings. These findings are opposite to those of studies on comment letters and mergers and acquisitions in the U.S. (Liu et al., 2020; Johnson et al., 2020), reflecting the different role of comment letters under different institutions.

Keywords: comment letters, restructurings, controlling shareholders, expropriation

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Shuo, Comment Letters and Large Asset Transactions: Evidence From an Emerging Market (July 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3641297 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3641297
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
J Aharony , C W J Lee , T J Wong
Financial packaging of IPO firms in China
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 2000
Crossref
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Beijing News
Quality assets or empty shell? Xiamen Overseas Chinese Electronic Co's acquisition shrouded in mystery
Chinese. Available at Posted: 2015-09-28
P G Berger , R Hann
The impact of SFAS No. 131 on information and monitoring
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 223 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Longhao Xu , Zhijian James Huang , Fenghua Wen
Comment letters and stock price synchronicity: evidence from China
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 1387 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
790
RANK
601,090
1 Citations
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies