Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Tax Enforcement Deter Managers’ Self-Dealing?

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2020 Last revised: 26 Apr 2022

Benjamin Yost

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Susan Shu

Boston College

Date Written: April 25, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the effect of corporate tax enforcement on managerial self-dealing, with a focus on manipulated gifts of insider stock. Prior work suggests that managers employ a variety of manipulative techniques to maximize their personal tax benefits from donating corporate stock, such as strategically timing gifts based on private information and fraudulently backdating gifts to the date with the highest price. Building on prior literature suggesting that the tax authority can discipline managerial misconduct, we hypothesize that IRS scrutiny from a corporate tax audit raises managers’ perceived risk of detection, who refrain from making manipulated stock gifts while the firm is under audit. Using a novel, firm-specific measure to identify firms under audit, we find direct evidence that heightened scrutiny from tax enforcement serves as an effective monitoring mechanism and reduces managers’ self-dealing behavior.

Keywords: IRS, Monitoring, Tax Evasion, Stock Gifts, Insider Trading

JEL Classification: G14, G34, H26, K22, L31

Suggested Citation:

Yost, Benjamin and Shu, Susan, Does Tax Enforcement Deter Managers’ Self-Dealing? (April 25, 2022). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3643129 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3643129
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
S Avci , C Schipani , H Seyhun
Manipulative games of gifts by corporate executives
University of Pennsylvania Journal of Business Law , volume 18 , p. 1131 - 1174 Posted: 2016
S Avci , C Schipani , H Seyhun , A Verstein
Insider giving
Duke Law Journal , volume 71 Posted: 2021
B Ayers , J Seidman , E Towery
Tax reporting behavior under audit certainty
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 326 - 358 Posted: 2019
A Bauer , X Fang , J Pittman
The importance of IRS enforcement to stock price crash risk: The role of CEO power and incentives
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , p. 81 - 109 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
383
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,843
RANK
177,110
12 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies