Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure of Governance Information by Small and Medium-Sized Companies

Parsa, S., Chong, G. & Isimoya, E. (2007) “Disclosure of governance information by small and medium-sized companies” Corporate Governance: An International Journal of Business in Society 7(5), 635-648 (ISSN 1472-0701)

15 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2020 Last revised: 21 Mar 2021

H Gin Chong

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

Purpose: This paper examines the extent of compliance with the governance regulatory requirements by small and medium-sized companies (SMEs) listed on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM). Considering the declining investor interest in AIM-listed companies coupled with the increasing attention investors pay to the presence of a sound and transparent governance mechanism, the paper seeks to identify those corporate governance and firm structure-specific characteristics that are positively associated with and affect the extent of compliance with the governance regulatory requirements, in an attempt to present recommendations that would make AIM-listed companies more attractive as investment opportunities.

Design/Methodology/Approach: The paper focuses on AIM-listed companies over a period of three years (2002, 2003 and 2004) and concentrates on their extent of compliance with the corporate governance disclosure guidelines set out by the regulatory bodies. To measure the extent of disclosure, we compiled a checklist based on the Combined Code (2003) and FSA listing rules. Having reviewed the literature on large companies (as there were no studies on SMEs), we selected a number of governance and firm structure-specific characteristics. The relationships between the level of governance disclosure and the chosen characteristics were examined in order to highlight those factors that are associated with and affect the level of governance disclosure.

Findings: On average about 50% of governance items required to be disclosed had been reported by AIM-listed companies. As for large companies, there is a positive relationship between the number of non-executive directors in governance mechanisms and the extent of disclosure. Unlike large companies, firm structure-specific characteristics were neither associated with nor had any impact on the extent of governance disclosure. Considering that there has been a declining interest in AIM-listed companies, we recommend the presence of more non-executive directors as this would ultimately mean more compliance with the governance disclosure requirements and could result in restored investor interest and confidence. Our findings also indicate that SMEs are more likely to have adopted a stakeholder approach when concentrating on their governance arrangements.

Originality/Value: This is the first study to present evidence on the state of compliance with the governance regulatory requirements by AIM-listed companies. The study presents evidence on governance disclosure practices of SMEs and indicates that in spite of a less stringent regulatory regime set up within AIM, non-executive directors, who bring in an element of independence to boards, play a significant role in elevating corporate transparency.

Keywords: Small companies, governance, alternative investment market, transparency.

JEL Classification: M1, M4

Suggested Citation:

Chong, H Gin, Disclosure of Governance Information by Small and Medium-Sized Companies (2007). Parsa, S., Chong, G. & Isimoya, E. (2007) “Disclosure of governance information by small and medium-sized companies” Corporate Governance: An International Journal of Business in Society 7(5), 635-648 (ISSN 1472-0701), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3643588 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3643588
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
835
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies