Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure on Financial Performance of Listed Companies in Nepal

The Journal of Nepalese Business Studies, Vol-XII, No 1, December 2019

18 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2020

Surya Bahadur G. C.

Pokhara University

Date Written: December 28, 2019

Abstract

The paper attempts to analyze relationships among corporate governance, ownership structure and firm performance in Nepal. The study comprises of panel data set of 25 firms listed at Nepal Stock Exchange (NEPSE) covering a period of five years from 2012 to 2016. The econometric methodology for the study consists primarily of least squares dummy variable (LSDV) model, fixed and random effects panel data models and two-stage least squares (2SLS) model. The study finds bi-directional relationship between corporate governance and performance. Among corporate governance internal mechanisms; smaller board size, higher proportion of independent directors, reducing ownership concentration, improving standards of transparency and disclosure, and designing appropriate director compensation package are important dimensions that listed firms and regulators in Nepal should focus on. Ownership concentration is found to have positive effect on performance; however, it affects corporate governance negatively. This study raises understanding and provides empirical evidence for endogenous relationship between corporate governance and performance and offers support for principal-principal agency relationship. The results of this study lead to several practical implications for listed firms as well as policymakers of Nepal in promoting sound corporate governance practices and codes. For listed companies, the improvement in compliance with a code of corporate governance or voluntary adoption of best practices can provide a means of achieving improved performance.

Keywords: board structure, corporate governance, ownership structure, principal-principal agency conflict

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

G. C., Surya Bahadur, The Effect of Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure on Financial Performance of Listed Companies in Nepal (December 28, 2019). The Journal of Nepalese Business Studies, Vol-XII, No 1, December 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3643717
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
R Acharya
Corporate governance and firm performance in Nepal. Reshaping Organizations to Develop Responsible Global Leadership
Conference Proceedings , p. 21 - 47 Posted: 2013
M Aglietta
Corporate governance and the long-run investor
International Review of Applied Economics , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 407 - 427 Posted: 2008
Crossref
C Alegria , K Schaeck
On measuring concentration in banking systems
Finance Research Letters , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 67 Posted: 2008
Crossref
T Baker , S J Anderson
Predicting corporate governance risk: Evidence from the Directors' and Officers' liability insurance market
Chicago Law Review , volume 74 , p. 462 - 487 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,194
RANK
319,999
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies