Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do US Commercial Banks Use FAS 157 to Manage Earnings?

International Journal of Accounting and Information Management

16 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2020 Last revised: 9 Jul 2020

H Gin Chong

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business

Henry He Huang

Yeshiva University - Department of Accounting

Yi Zhang

Prairie View A&M University

Date Written: February 24, 2012

Abstract


Purpose: This paper aims to examine whether commercial banks manage earnings through their use of Level 3 valuation under The Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157 (FAS 157), Fair Value Measurements. To achieve this goal, we investigate the association between banks’ performance and size with the percentage of Level 3 inputs for valuing assets and liabilities. The FAS 157 requires or permits US listed firms to adopt one of the three levels of inputs to measure and report fair values of their assets and liabilities. Level 1 input is based on quoted prices in the active markets; Level 2 is from the observable markets other than quoted prices; while Level 3 is based on unobservable and firm-generated inputs.

Design/methodology/approach: We extract information from all the 10Q-reports submitted by the US commercial banks (SEC Code 6021) for the first two quarters of 2008. Since Level 3 input is subject to the highest level of managerial discretion, we expect this is an avenue for earnings management. We apply multivariate regression to test whether the banks’ performance and size are associated with a higher level of Level 3 input.

Findings: Out of 329 quarterly bank observations, we find large banks and poor performing banks with lower returns on assets, lower cash flows, and higher amounts of provision for loan losses, use more Level 3 inputs on valuing their assets and liabilities.

Research limitations/implications: Our results suggest that US commercial banks use FAS157 as an avenue for earnings management. The results have implications to the accounting standard setters, banking sector and policy decision makers.

Originality/value: This is the first paper providing evidence that banks use fair value measurements to manipulate earnings.

Keywords: Finance, FAS 157, fair value measurements, commercial banks, performance, provision for loan losses, earnings management, USA

JEL Classification: M1, M4

Suggested Citation:

Chong, H Gin and Huang, Henry and Zhang, Yi, Do US Commercial Banks Use FAS 157 to Manage Earnings? (February 24, 2012). International Journal of Accounting and Information Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3643614
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Fair value and mark to market accounting
ABA Posted: 2009
R Ball
Don't blame the messenger . . . or ignore the message Posted: 2008
M Barth , W Beaver , M Wolfson
Components of earnings and the structure of bank share prices
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 46 , p. 53 - 62 Posted: 1990
Crossref
A Beatty , S Chamberlain , J Maglioloj
Managing financial reports of commercial banks: the influence of taxes, regulatory capital, and earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 33 , p. 231 - 61 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
757
RANK
692,403
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies