Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Real Effects of Modern Information Technologies: Evidence from the EDGAR Implementation

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2020 Last revised: 4 Jun 2023

Itay Goldstein

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School - Finance Department ; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Shijie Yang

Southern University of Science and Technology

Luo Zuo

National University of Singapore; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 3, 2023

Abstract

Using the implementation of the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system from 1993 to 1996 as a shock to information dissemination technologies, we examine how a significant reduction in disclosure processing costs affects the real economy. We find that the EDGAR implementation leads to an increase in corporate investment and that this effect is concentrated in value firms. We provide evidence that improved equity financing and enhanced managerial incentives are likely the underlying mechanisms. Specifically, the EDGAR implementation leads to an increase in a firm’s stock liquidity, a decrease in the cost of equity capital, and an increase in the level of equity financing. Consistent with the monitoring effect of broad information dissemination, the EDGAR implementation leads to an increase in a firm’s operating performance. Our findings suggest that it is important to consider information dissemination beyond information production when examining the real effects of corporate disclosures.

Keywords: Corporate Investment, Information Technologies, EDGAR, Equity Financing, Managerial Incentives.

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G31, M41.

Suggested Citation:

Goldstein, Itay and Yang, Shijie and Zuo, Luo, The Real Effects of Modern Information Technologies: Evidence from the EDGAR Implementation (June 3, 2023). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3644613 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3644613
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
A Alti
How sensitive is investment to cash flow when financing is frictionless
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 707 - 722 Posted: 2003
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
B Badertscher , N Shroff , H D White
Externalities of public firm presence: Evidence from firms' investment decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
J Bai , T Philippon , A Savov
Have financial markets become more informative
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 122 , issue 3 , p. 625 - 654 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
956
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,975
RANK
31,977
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies