Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Auditing & Risk Management

Internal Auditing & Risk Management, YEAR XV, No. 2 (58), JUNE 2020

64 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2020

Brînduşa-Mihaela Radu

Universitatea Athenaeum

Catalin Dumitrescu

Universitatea Athenaeum

Matei

Bucharest University of Economic Studies - Bucharest University of Economic Studies, Students

Otilia Manta

Universitatea Athenaeum

Viorica Burcea

University of Valahia

Radu Gheorghe

Universitatea Athenaeum

Date Written: June 25, 2020

Abstract

The spread of COVID-19 and the drastic blockages that followed led to the placement of economies and labor markets around the world in a state of emergency. Governments are fighting to protect jobs and businesses. Some of the measures identified and implemented are short-term telework and support for companies and the self-employed. The epidemic caused by coronavirus poses a threat to the European economy and to the living standards of its citizens.

Keywords: economics, business, management, education, finance, current events, labor market, COVID-19

Suggested Citation:

Radu, Brînduşa-Mihaela and Dumitrescu, Catalin and Dumitrescu, Matei and Manta, Otilia and Burcea, Viorica and Gheorghe, Radu, Internal Auditing & Risk Management (June 25, 2020). Internal Auditing & Risk Management, YEAR XV, No. 2 (58), JUNE 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3644600
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Bbc News
Parks closing as areas urge tourists to stay away Posted: 2020
T Buck , Arnold M Chazan , G Cookson , C
Coronavirus declared a pandemic as fears of economic crisis mount Posted: 2020
Crain&apos;s Chicago , Business
CME closing trading floors indefinitely amid coronavirus concerns Posted: 2020-04-23
Deloitte Insights
Resilient leadership responding to COVID-19 | [online Posted: 2020-04-20
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,079
RANK
446,506
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies