Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pension Deficits and Corporate Financial Policy: Does Accounting Transparency Matter?

Forthcoming, European Accounting Review

82 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2020

Fani Kalogirou

UCP-Católica Lisbon School of Business and Economics

Paraskevi Vicky Kiosse

University of Exeter Business School

Peter F. Pope

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

Date Written: July 1, 2020

Abstract

We study changes in financial policies following a regulatory shock to the accounting transparency of defined benefit pension plans. We estimate the hidden pension deficits of French companies subject to mandatory IAS 19 adoption in 2005 using disclosures of early adopters of IAS 19. We find that financially risky companies reporting unexpectedly high pension deficits on first-time IAS 19 adoption subsequently reduce leverage and incur higher cost of debt. Our results suggest that in the absence of transparency the credit market anticipates off-balance sheet pension deficits. However, the introduction of the more transparent IAS 19 regime allows the credit market to correct estimation errors. Our study is one of the first to show that the greater transparency offered by IFRS has negative economic consequences for some companies.

Keywords: accounting transparency, defined benefit pension plans, capital structure, off- balance sheet liabilities, credit market

JEL Classification: G15, G32, M4

Suggested Citation:

Kalogirou, Fani and Kiosse, Paraskevi Vicky and Pope, Peter F., Pension Deficits and Corporate Financial Policy: Does Accounting Transparency Matter? (July 1, 2020). Forthcoming, European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3644325
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
P Alves , P F Pope , S Young
Cross-border information transfers: Evidence from profit warnings issued by European firms
Accounting and Business Research , volume 39 , issue 5 , p. 449 - 472 Posted: 2009
Crossref
D Anantharaman , E Chuk
The economic consequences of accounting standards: Evidence from risk-taking in pension plans
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 23 - 51 Posted: 2018
Crossref
S Asthana
Determinants of funding strategies and actuarial choices for defined-benefit pension plans
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 39 - 74 Posted: 1999
Crossref
K.-H Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,153
RANK
499,012
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies