Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Function as Management Performance Tool in Organizations

Business, Management and Economics Research, Vol. 6, Issue. 6, pp: 67-74, 2020

8 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2020

John Ugoani

Rhema Univeristy, Nigeria.

Date Written: July 7, 2020

Abstract

Accounting function aims at providing accurate and sufficient accounting information to facilitate proper financial reporting and management performance. Accounting information is usually in the form of periodic or annual financial statements which are products of costing, financial and management accounting prepared for the benefit of a number of external interest groups. Accounting has its roots in the stewardship approach and as a management performance tool to guide the agent and the principal over the exact status of the going concern. Accounting function also involves financial statement analysis, interpreting the accounts by computing and evaluating ratios which relate pairs of financial information or items with one another. This analysis of ratios can be cross-sectional comparing the results of one company with another or trend. In doing so close attention is usually paid to profitability ratio to help keep pace with effective management performance. The exploratory research design was adopted for the study and result showed positive correlation between accounting function and management performance. The study was not exhaustive, therefore, further study should examine the relationship between audit failure and business failure as a matter of finding a solution to the problem. It was recommended that management should always carefully study audit reports to enhance decision making and management performance.

Keywords: Management Accounting; Performance Measurement; Final Accounts; Financial Reporting; Management Decision-Making; Pari Passu; Internationalized; Non-Profit Organizations; Management Audit; Business and Society

JEL Classification: M10, M12

Suggested Citation:

Ugoani, John, Accounting Function as Management Performance Tool in Organizations (July 7, 2020). Business, Management and Economics Research, Vol. 6, Issue. 6, pp: 67-74, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3645041
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Z Abdul-Baki , A B Uthman , M Sanni
Financial ratio as performance of IFRS and Nigerian GAAP
Journal of Accounting and Management Information System , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 82 - 97 Posted: 2014
E O Akpan , N A Amran
Board characteristics and company performance: Evidence from Nigeria
Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 81 - 89 Posted: 2014
I I Amaefule , U R Onyekpere , F O Kalu
International financial reporting standards, and manufacturing firms' financial performance in Nigeria: A study of selected quoted firms
International Journal of Accounting and Taxation , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 102 - 116 Posted: 2018
Crossref
W U Ani
Government and public sector accounting: A professional approach Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,614
RANK
336,212
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies