Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Making CEO Narcissism Research Great: A Review and Meta-Analysis of CEO Narcissism

Journal of Management. 46 (6), 908 – 936. DOI: 10.177/0149206319892678

55 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2020

Ormonde Cragun

University of Minnesota - Duluth - Labovitz School of Business and Economics (LSBE)

Kari Olsen

Utah Valley University

Patrick M. Wright

University of South Carolina

Date Written: July 1, 2020

Abstract

Chief executive officer (CEO) narcissism is an important area of research due to the strategic implications of how this multifaceted personality trait affects CEO behavior. This article presents a combined meta-analytic and narrative review of CEO narcissism and makes future research recommendations. Our review and meta-analytic findings lead to the creation of a framework for CEO narcissism research focused on narcissistic CEO supply, demand, behavior, and consequences. Additionally, our review identifies five methods of measuring CEO narcissism, each with strengths and weaknesses. We find that while extant findings exhibit common themes, such findings remain mixed and potentially dependent upon methods. We recommend that future research expand beyond the strategic consequences of CEO narcissism to consider additional foci of the research framework and its moderators. Additionally, we suggest that research can benefit from moving beyond the predominant theoretical lenses of upper echelons theory and leadership theory to the lenses of the extended agency model of narcissism, the admiration-versus-rivalry perspective of narcissism, and tournament theory.

Keywords: CEO narcissism; executive narcissism; narcissism; chief executive officer; personality; leadership; meta-analysis

JEL Classification: M12

Suggested Citation:

Cragun, Ormonde and Olsen, Kari and Wright, Patrick M., Making CEO Narcissism Research Great: A Review and Meta-Analysis of CEO Narcissism (July 1, 2020). Journal of Management. 46 (6), 908 – 936. DOI: 10.177/0149206319892678, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3645535
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
115 References
N Aktas , E De Bodt , H Bollaert , R Roll
CEO narcissism and the takeover process: From private initiation to deal completion
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 51 , p. 113 - 137 Posted: 2016
Crossref
American Psychiatric Association. 2013. Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders: DSM-5
Crossref
J H Amernic , R J Craig
Guidelines for CEO-speak: Editing the language of corporate leadership
Strategy & Leadership , volume 35 , p. 25 - 31 Posted: 2007
Crossref
J H Amernic , R J Craig
Accounting as a facilitator of extreme narcissism
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 96 , p. 79 - 93 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
697
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,220
RANK
85,079
2 Citations
115 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies