Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Synthetic Governance

Columbia Business Law Review, Vol. 2021, p. 476

U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 20-41

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 693/2020

50 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2020 Last revised: 22 Sep 2021

Byung Hyun Ahn

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Jill E. Fisch

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Panos N. Patatoukas

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Steven Davidoff Solomon

University of California, Berkeley - School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

Although securities regulation is distinct from corporate governance, the two fields have considerable substantive overlap. By increasing the transparency and efficiency of the capital markets, securities regulation can also enhance the capacity of those markets to discipline governance decisions. The importance of market discipline is heightened by the increasingly vocal debate over what constitutes “good” corporate governance.

Securities product innovation offers new tools to address this debate. The rise of index-based investing provides a market-based mechanism for selecting among governance options and evaluating their effects. Through the creation of bespoke governance index funds, asset managers can create indexes that correspond to investors’ governance preferences. We argue that this “synthetic governance” offers a way to gather evidence on the economic impact of corporate governance by providing a market-based tool for evaluating the relationship between corporate governance and stock returns.

We illustrate the potential of synthetic governance by creating a new governance-based index, the Dual Index, which selects portfolio companies on the basis of a dual class voting structure and comparing its performance to various benchmarks. We further modify the Dual Index by implementing synthetic sunsets to highlight the value creation of dual class companies in their early years and provide evidence on the appropriate length of a time-based sunset provision. Finally, we expand our analysis of synthetic governance with a second index—the Split Index—which tests the effect of separating the positions of CEO and Chairman of the Board. We conclude that synthetic governance demonstrates the ability of securities market innovation to discipline corporate governance.



Keywords: Law and economics, corporate governance, capital markets, securities regulation, mutual funds, dual-class stock, shareholder voting, investment choices, asset management, index funds, split board chair and CEO

JEL Classification: G11, G32, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Ahn, Byung Hyun and Fisch, Jill E. and Patatoukas, Panos N. and Davidoff Solomon, Steven, Synthetic Governance (2021). Columbia Business Law Review, Vol. 2021, p. 476, U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 20-41, European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 693/2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3645312 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3645312
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
E G See , Sanjai Generally , Bernard Bhagat , Black
The Non-Correlation Between Board Independence and Long-Term Firm Performance, 27
J. CORP. L , volume 231 Posted: 2002
Ryan Krause , Matthew Semadeni , Albert A Cannella , Ceo Duality
A Review and Research Agenda
40 J. MGMT , volume 256 Posted: 2014
E G See , Diego Generally , Asensio-López
Laura Cabeza-García & Nuria González-Álvarez, Corporate Governance and Innovation: A Theoretical Review, 28 EUR
J. MGMT. & BUS. ECON , volume 266 Posted: 2019
E G See , Mark S Generally , Beasley
An Empirical Analysis of the Relation Between the Board of Director Composition and Financial Statement Fraud, 71 ACCT Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
461
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,579
RANK
143,013
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies