Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Level of Voluntary Disclosure in the Annual Reports of Listed Corporations in Fiji: A Case Study of South Pacific Stock Exchange Listed Corporations

16 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2020

Sheik Tanzil

Independent

Date Written: July 9, 2020

Abstract

This paper investigates the level of voluntary disclosure by listed Corporations of South Pacific Stock Exchange (SPSE). The major objective of the paper is to contribute towards the literature on level of voluntary disclosure in a developing country context. The focal point of the research was to use the empirical data from the twelve of the 2019 audited listed company annual reports from the SPSE. This research is informed by organizational legitimacy theory. The paper shows that the level of voluntary disclosure in SPSE companies has increased from the previous studies. However, the increase is not substantial. The paper shows that corporations who do not have monopoly power fear about their social contract and disclose more voluntary information in order to legitimize their activity. Corporations with monopoly power do not care about their social contract as they are certain that the society has no choice but to accept them as they are the only one in the market, so they do not legitimize their activity to a great extent. Legitimacy theory holds true for non-monopoly firms and does not hold true for monopoly firms.

Keywords: Voluntary Disclosure, Legitimacy Theory, Developing Economics, South Pacific Stock Exchange.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Tanzil, Sheik, The Level of Voluntary Disclosure in the Annual Reports of Listed Corporations in Fiji: A Case Study of South Pacific Stock Exchange Listed Corporations (July 9, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3646998 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3646998
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Y An , H Davey , R C Ian
Towards a Comprehensive Theoretical Framework for Voluntary IC Disclosure
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 571 - 585 Posted: 2011
Crossref
N Brown , C Deegan
The Public Disclosure of Environmental Performance Information -A Dual Test of Media Agenda Theory and Legitimacy Theory
Accounting and Business Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 41 Posted: 1998
Crossref
T E Cooke
An Assessment of Voluntary Disclosure in the Annual Reports of Japanese Corporations
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 174 - 189 Posted: 1991
C Deegan , M Rankin
Do Australian companies report environmental news objectively? Accounting, Auditing and Accountability , volume 9 , p. 50 - 67 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
974
RANK
407,330
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies