Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Reforms and the Cost of Equity: International Evidence

45 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2020

Maoliang Li

Xiamen University - Institute for Financial and Accounting Studies

Ji (George) Wu

Massey University - School of Economics and Finance

Liansheng Zhang

Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) - State Key Laboratory of Cell Biology

Liping Zou

School of Economics and Finance, Massey Univeristy, Albany

Date Written: May 8, 2020

Abstract

We examine the impact of corporate board reforms on the COE using a sample of data in 41 countries for the period from 1992 to 2012. We find a significant increase in the COE after board reforms worldwide. This effect is eased for firms in countries under a comply-or-explain reform approach, as well as for firms in emerging countries. We further conclude that board reforms involving board independence, audit committee and auditor independence, and the separation of the CEO and Chairman positions, result increases in the COE. Our results suggest that board reforms are considered inefficient to mitigate agency problems.

Keywords: Board Reforms; Cost of Equity; Corporate Governance; Cross-Country Study

JEL Classification: G14; G32; K151

Suggested Citation:

Li, Maoliang and Wu, Ji (George) and Zhang, Liansheng and Zou, Liping, Board Reforms and the Cost of Equity: International Evidence (May 8, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3646598 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3646598
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
R Adams , H Mehran
Board structure and banking firm performance Posted: 2002
R Aggarwal , I Erel , R Stulz , R Williamson
Differences in governance practices between US and foreign firms: measurement, causes, and consequences
Review of Financial Studies , volume 228 , p. 3131 - 3169 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 373 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S H Archer , L R G Faerber
Firm size and the cost of externally secured equity capital
The Journal of Finance , volume 211 , p. 69 - 83 Posted: 1966
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,034
RANK
677,550
4 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies