Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
For Whom Are Non-Profit Managers Trustees? The Contractual Revolution in Charity Governance

Laby & Russell, eds., Fiduciary Obligations in Business (Cambridge University Press, Forthcoming)

41 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2020

Jacob Hale Russell

Rutgers Law School

Date Written: June 9, 2020

Abstract

This chapter chronicles an unnoticed aspect of the intellectual history of the “contractarian” paradigm, the descriptive claim that firms are best characterized as nexus of contracts. Although the paradigm’s rise in the 1980s in the corporate world is well known, little has been said about its success in rewriting both theory and doctrine in charitable and not-for-profit law. The contract paradigm has reshaped the questions that not-for-profit scholarship attempts to answers, and it is tightly linked to developments in not-for-profit doctrine and practice. Key examples include the growth of donor standing — the notion that not-for-profits have a fiduciary duty to their donors, and that donors may bring suit for breaches — and the growing obsession with “donor intent” throughout the not-for-profit sphere. I contrast contractarianism with an institutionalist “public trust” conception of charities, which was the prevailing intellectual paradigm for most of the 20th century.

Keywords: charitable law, not-for-profit, non-profit, donor intent, cy près, contractarian paradigm, law and economics, intellectual history, nexus of contracts

JEL Classification: B20, K22, L31

Suggested Citation:

Russell, Jacob, For Whom Are Non-Profit Managers Trustees? The Contractual Revolution in Charity Governance (June 9, 2020). Laby & Russell, eds., Fiduciary Obligations in Business (Cambridge University Press, Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3647225
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
debates in the not-for-profit sector-largely outside of formal law, but more about not-for-profit-practice-also appear rooted in, and influenced by, the contract paradigm Posted: 2008
Robert Katz
Let Charitable Directors Direct: Why Trust Law Should Not Curb Board Discretion Over a Charitable Corporation's Mission and Unrestricted Assets, 80 CHI Posted: 2005
Atkinson
Crossref
Dana Brakman Reiser
Nonprofit Takeovers: Regulating the Market for Mission Control Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,283
RANK
467,197
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies