Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Heterogeneity in the Information Content of 8-K Disclosures about Private Targets: Acquirer Size and Target Significance

Global Finance Journal (GFJ), May 2021, 48, 100559

45 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2020 Last revised: 11 Aug 2021

Onur Bayar

University of Texas at San Antonio - Alvarez College of Business

Sougata Das

Montana State University Billings

Emre Kesici

University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: June 13, 2020

Abstract

In this paper, we empirically analyze the disclosures required by the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) for acquisitions of privately-held target firms by public acquirers. We find that 8-K disclosures filed by public acquirers within a week after the announcement date of the takeover of a privately-held target firm have a material impact on the pricing and the trading of the acquirers’ shares around the event date, but only for large acquiring firms. Our empirical analysis of both abnormal returns and abnormal trading volumes supports these findings. We find that for large acquirers, this impact is economically significant for targets classified as “insignificant” by the SEC. However, this effect is insignificant for smaller acquirers, even when the relative deal size is above the threshold levels specified in the SEC’s disclosure requirements. Overall, our results suggest that it may be optimal to further reduce the disclosure costs faced by smaller acquirers in acquisitions of private targets.

Keywords: Takeovers of Private Targets, Public Acquirers, Mergers and Acquisitions, Disclosure Requirements, Information Transparency

JEL Classification: G14, G20, G34

Suggested Citation:

Bayar, Onur and Das, Sougata and Kesici, Emre, Heterogeneity in the Information Content of 8-K Disclosures about Private Targets: Acquirer Size and Target Significance (June 13, 2020). Global Finance Journal (GFJ), May 2021, 48, 100559, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3649188
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
565
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies