Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Debts have any Impact on Governance Bundle and Agency Costs? Over-Governance Hypothesis

Technium Social Sciences Journal, 9(1), 384-396.

10 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2020 Last revised: 12 Aug 2020

Saleh F. A. Khatib

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

DF Abdullah

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Ali Kabara

affiliation not provided to SSRN

S. A. Hazaea

Yunnan University of Finance and Economics; Al jazeera univerisity

T., Selvi, Rajoo

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

The purpose of this article is to extend the bundles of corporate governance theory and propose the role of corporate debt in determining the governance structure of a company. This research intended to answer some questions have been put forward by scholars to explain the inter-relationship between debt, corporate governance, and agency costs: (i) what exactly is the disciplinary role of debts? (ii) how is governance structure influenced by the debt level? and (iii) are extremely high debt ratios required? Previous works have looked at interrelations between debt, corporate governance, and agency costs in isolation result in inconclusive findings. However, we argue that debt level is a key determinant of the effective governance structure that maintains agency costs at the optimal level. Based on the governance bundle theory, we contribute to the literature by introducing a new model (over-governance model) that suggests financial leverage as a critical contingency linking governance bundle and agency costs. Also, it provides a clear picture on the different type of agency costs. Our paper provides a theoretical framework to guide further studies and provide important implications for the board, corporate management, and regulators.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Governance Bundle, Agency Costs, Debt, Capital Structure

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Khatib, Saleh F. A. and Abdullah, Dewi Fariha and Kabara, Ali and Hazaea, Saddam A and RAJOO, TAMIL SELVI, Does Debts have any Impact on Governance Bundle and Agency Costs? Over-Governance Hypothesis (2020). Technium Social Sciences Journal, 9(1), 384-396., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3649271
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
743
RANK
753,521
1 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies