Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate Finance Decisions on Market Value in Emerging Markets

International Journal of Productivity and Performance Management, Vol. 67 No. 9, pp. 1959-1976, 2018

DOI: 10.1108/IJPPM-11-2017-0285

Posted: 12 Aug 2020

Guler Aras

Yildiz Technical University

Filiz Mutlu Yıldırım

Çanakkale Onsekiz Mart University; Independent

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

Purpose: The purpose of this paper is to analyze the conformity of the impact of corporate finance decisions on market value with the basic theoretical approaches in the two emerging economies, which show great similarities in terms of the economic structures, and to examine the results obtained by determining how these decisions affect market value comparatively.

Design/methodology/approach: In this study, the effect of corporate finance decisions on market value is tested empirically with panel data analysis method by using data of 274 real sector firms traded in BIST and 249 firms in BOVESPA industry index, between 2010 and 2014.

Findings: The analysis results show that the increase in the borrowing level of firms operating in both countries reduces the market value; the increase in the level of profitability in the firms has a positive effect on the market value. In addition, it is possible to say that the effect is different in terms of investment decisions for Turkish and Brazilian firms.

Research limitations/implications: The limitations of the study are that the non-financial sectors between 2010 and 2014 in Turkey and Brazil including the company data, and the companies with missing years are removed from the data set. The findings show that more effective and balanced management of the variables by the financial manager affects these rates and have an impact on increasing the market value.

Originality/value: In this study, a fundamental subject in finance is addressed by analytical methodology and comparative tests for countries are conducted.

Keywords: Market Value, Corporate Finance Decisions, Panel Data Analysis, Turkey, Brazil

Suggested Citation:

Aras, Guler and Mutlu Yıldırım, Filiz, The Impact of Corporate Finance Decisions on Market Value in Emerging Markets (2018). International Journal of Productivity and Performance Management, Vol. 67 No. 9, pp. 1959-1976, 2018, DOI: 10.1108/IJPPM-11-2017-0285, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3649679
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
623
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies