Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fiduciary Duties, Corporate Purpose and Stakeholder Interests: What Pre-COVID Sustainability Initiatives Can Teach About a Post-COVID Future

9 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2020

Bruce Dravis

American Bar Association

Date Written: July 13, 2020

Abstract

COVID revealed that collective problems that exist at global scale require resources beyond those that can be easily mustered under the current rules for the American economic system. Unless one assumes that current rules governing the economy are adequate to address the need for a durable economy — a risky assumption, given that the economy staved off crashes in 2008 and 2020 only through the injection trillions of dollars of government funds — it is inevitable that those rules will change. The need for such change is already visible, and the call for such change has already begun. COVID exposed a smallness of imagination in the business and investing world respecting sustainability, an undue and undeserved respect for the ability of markets to address systemic risk:

Institutional investors can use diversification to address portfolio risk — but not systemic risk like a pandemic.

Operating companies can use sustainability strategies to address company-specific risk, which is helpful company by company — but not systemic risk.

For “sustainability” to be an effective macro-economic strategy, then the private sector and the public sector will ultimately need to collaborate to rethink at least some of the rules of capitalism. The benefits to individual companies or investors from piecemeal company-by-company efforts can still be undermined by collective risks that exist at global scale.

Keywords: ESG, sustainability, global risk, systemic risk, collective risk, COVID

JEL Classification: K22, G01, G30, G38, H23, O16,

Suggested Citation:

Dravis, Bruce, Fiduciary Duties, Corporate Purpose and Stakeholder Interests: What Pre-COVID Sustainability Initiatives Can Teach About a Post-COVID Future (July 13, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3650475 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3650475
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,660
RANK
388,737
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies