Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Relevance of Corporate Voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from India

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVIII, No. 3, July 2019, pp. 7-27

Posted: 4 Aug 2020

Rupjyoti Saha

North-Eastern Hill University (NEHU)

K. C. Kabra

North-Eastern Hill University (NEHU)

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to examine whether or not voluntary disclosure made by Indian listed companies are value-relevant in the capital market. The sample consists of top 100 non-financial, non-utility companies based on market capitalization listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) over the period 2014-2017. Data regarding voluntary disclosure level has been collected by analyzing the contents of annual reports. In order to investigate the impact of voluntary disclosure on firm value, fixed-effect panel data regression model is employed. Furthermore, Two Stage Least Squares (2SLS) regression model with instrumental variables is used as a robustness test to alleviate the endogeneity issue. The findings of the study reveal that voluntary disclosure is value-relevant, i.e., impacts the firm value. The more the voluntary disclosure made by the companies, the higher the value they have in terms of market capitalization. Therefore, this finding provides impetus to managers to disclose more information voluntarily to meet the information needs of the stakeholders. By evaluating the value relevance of overall voluntary disclosure, the study contributes to the relevant literature, as there is paucity of studies regarding how the market participants perceive voluntary disclosure in an emerging market such as India, which is subjected to market imperfections.

Suggested Citation:

Saha, Rupjyoti and Kabra, K. C., The Value Relevance of Corporate Voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from India (2019). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVIII, No. 3, July 2019, pp. 7-27, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3653023
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
398
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies