Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Structure and Composition in Manufacturing, Telecom and IT and ITeS Industries in India

The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XVIII, No. 3, July 2019, pp. 49-67

Posted: 4 Aug 2020

Mohammed Abdul Nayeem

IBS Hyderabad (Under IFHE – A Deemed to be University u/s 3 of the UGC Act, 1956)

Siddhartha Kushwaha

IBS Hyderabad (A Constituent of the ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education, a Deemed University)

Bharath Supra

IBS Hyderabad (Under IFHE – A Deemed to be University u/s 3 of the UGC Act, 1956)

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

Corporate governance came into being to check the unlawful business practices in the corporate world and safeguard the interests of the shareholders. Lack of corporate governance will have an effect on businesses. Anglo-American model is being followed by the developing nations, particularly by India, for corporate governance. However, the overall corporate governance structure is still at a rudimentary level. The present study examines the relationship between board structure and ownership structure and its composition across different companies listed on Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) Index in three industries, namely, Manufacturing, Telecom, IT and ITeS. The reason for picking up these industries for the study is that together these three industries contribute more than a quarter of the GDP of India. So it becomes inevitable to study the relationship between board structure and ownership structure in these industries. A two-stage methodology is used—First stage: Analysis of Descriptive statistics, i.e., mean and standard deviation (Liu and Fong, 2010); and Second Stage: Correlation analysis among variables. The results inferred from the work highlight the relationship between board and ownership structure of these three industries.

Suggested Citation:

Nayeem, Mohammed Abdul and Kushwaha, Siddhartha and Supra, Bharath, Board Structure and Composition in Manufacturing, Telecom and IT and ITeS Industries in India (2019). The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XVIII, No. 3, July 2019, pp. 49-67, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3653079
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
339
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies