Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Structures and Firm Performance in Nigeria: A Canonical Correlation Analysis

Journal of Research in Emerging Markets, 2(4), 21-32, 2020. https://doi.org/10.30585/jrems.v2i4.537

12 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2020

Abdul Adamu

Department of Business Administration, Nasarawa State University Keffi

Joel Haruna

Access Bank PLC

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

This study examined the relationship between ownership structure and performance of listed non-financial firms in Nigeria. Secondary data on managerial ownership, ownership concentration, foreign ownership, institutional ownership, Tobin q, return on assets, return on equities, and earnings per shares were collected from forty (40) sampled firms. The data were analyzed using canonical correlation and the findings showed that managerial and foreign ownerships are the dominant ownership structures while Tobin q, EPS, and ROA are the dominant performance measures. The study also found that ownership concentration, foreign ownership, and institutional ownership are positively correlated with firm performance, while managerial ownership is negatively correlated with firm performance. The study recommended that listed non-financial firms should encourage foreign investments in their firms and rewards performing managers with shares in the firm.

Keywords: Ownership structure; Performance; Multivariate data; and Canonical Correlation

JEL Classification: G32, C39

Suggested Citation:

Adamu, Abdul and Haruna, Joel, Ownership Structures and Firm Performance in Nigeria: A Canonical Correlation Analysis (2020). Journal of Research in Emerging Markets, 2(4), 21-32, 2020. https://doi.org/10.30585/jrems.v2i4.537, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3658505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
G M Abeyrathna , S Ishari
Impact of ownership structure on firms' performance of manufacturing companies in Sri Lanka
International Journal of Scientific and Research , volume 6 , issue 10 , p. 111 - 115 Posted: 2016
T T Y Alabdullah
The relationship between ownership structure and firm financial performance: Evidence from Jordan
Benchmarking: An International Journal , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 319 - 333 Posted: 2018
Crossref
A Ali , F Qiang , S Ashraf
Regional dynamics of ownership structure and their impact on firm performance and firm valuation: A case of Chinese listed companies
Review of International Business and Strategy , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 129 - 147 Posted: 2018
Crossref
M Alipour , H Amjadi
The effect of ownership structure on corporate performance of listed companies in Tehran stock exchange: An empirical evidence of Iran
International Journal of Business and Social Science , volume 2 , issue 13 , p. 49 - 55 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
584
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,803
RANK
106,838
2 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies