Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating Internal Controls on Stock: A Case of Nakumatt Holdings Limited

University of Nairobi, Bachelors of Commerce Research Project

41 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2020

Fredrick Onyango Odhiambo

ResearchPro Solutions - Department of Research, Monitoring & Evaluations

Koki Mwangi

University of Nairobi - School of Business

Samwel Kamau

University of Nairobi - School of Business

Gladys Mwangi

University of Nairobi - School of Business

Anthony Mbugua

University of Nairobi - School of Business

Date Written: June 25, 2007

Abstract

The purpose of this study is twofold. First, is to find out whether the internal control (IC) system employed on stock was the same for all the branches of Nakumatt supermarket. Second, the study evaluates the internal control on stock in Nakumatt supermarket on the premises of a sound internal control system.

Most of the information used in this paper was collected by conducting structured interviews with the store managers of four branches operating within Nairobi. This information was supplemented by published studies.

The findings indicate that there is no rotation of duties among the personnel responsible for stock. All the branches examined had implemented many of the basic fundamental elements of an effective IC system. This suggests that they could significantly improve the quality of their IC system by instituting some fairly minor and cheap practices.

The implications of these findings for management of Nakumatt supermarket and researchers of internal control are discussed.

Keywords: Internal Controls, Nakumatt Holdings Limited, Auditing

JEL Classification: M41, M42, Y40

Suggested Citation:

Odhiambo, Fredrick Onyango and Mwangi, Koki and Kamau, Samwel and Mwangi, Gladys and Mbugua, Anthony, Evaluating Internal Controls on Stock: A Case of Nakumatt Holdings Limited (June 25, 2007). University of Nairobi, Bachelors of Commerce Research Project, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3659850
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
What is the process involved in making your purchase orders? How do you get your suppliers? 2. What is the process involved in receiving goods from suppliers?
How is recording of goods received from suppliers done?
How do you make payments to your suppliers? Please explain the process
What are the security measures involved to protect your goods while in the store and on the shelves?
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
716
RANK
785,362
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies