Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Knowledge is Power: The Importance of Public Accounting Experience to Mutual Fund Managers’ Monitoring

Posted: 20 Oct 2020

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Jun Huang

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Ting Li

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Date Written: July 27, 2020

Abstract

We document that firms held by mutual fund managers who worked in public accounting earlier in their careers exhibit higher quality financial reporting. In cross-sectional evidence consistent with expectations, we find that the role that fund manager public accounting experience plays is magnified when: the firm suffers more severe agency problems, firm information asymmetry is worse, the fund has a longer investment horizon, fund managers formerly worked at large accounting firms, and fund managers have social connections with corporate executives. Additional evidence implies that fund managers with public accounting experience are more likely to conduct site visits to their portfolio firms and discuss accounting topics when there. Firms’ earnings management subsides after site visits by these fund managers, particularly when they raise accounting issues during their visits. Overall, our evidence suggests that fund managers with public accounting experience impose stricter external monitoring on their portfolio firms’ financial reporting.

Keywords: Mutual fund manager; Public accounting experience; Earnings management

JEL Classification: G23, G34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yangyang and Huang, Jun and Li, Ting and Pittman, Jeffrey A., Knowledge is Power: The Importance of Public Accounting Experience to Mutual Fund Managers’ Monitoring (July 27, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3661649
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,279
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies