Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Avoidance and Industry Concentration

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP15060

63 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2020 Last revised: 22 Sep 2021

Julien Martin

University of Quebec at Montreal (UQAM)

Mathieu Parenti

Catholic University of Louvain (UCL)

Farid Toubal

Université Paris Dauphine; Centre d'Etudes Prospectives et d'Info. Internationales (CEPII); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 2021

Abstract

A simple model shows CTA increases concentration if (i) CTA gives a competitive advantage to avoiding firms, and (ii) CTA of large relative to small firms increases. We find a positive and causal impact of CTA on firm-level sales using three alternative identification strategies. We then show CTA increases more among the largest firms in most industries, which reinforces their dominant position. In key industries, the differences in tax aggressiveness between large and small firms explain 10% to 30% of the increase in concentration over the last 25 years. CTA-induced changes in the CR4 index influence industrial real output to an extent that is relevant at the macroeconomic scale.

Keywords: industry concentration, IRS Audit Probability, Tax avoidance

JEL Classification: D22, D4, F23, H26, L11

Suggested Citation:

Martin, Julien and Parenti, Mathieu and Toubal, Farid, Corporate Tax Avoidance and Industry Concentration (July 2021). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP15060, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3661403
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
36 References
Alberto Abadie , Susan Athey , Guido W Imbens , Jeffrey Wooldridge
When should you adjust standard errors for clustering Posted: 2017
Pol Antràs , Stephen R Yeaple
Multinational firms and the structure of international trade
, volume 4 , p. 55 - 130 Posted: 2014
David Autor , David Dorn , Lawrence F Katz , Christina Patterson , John Van Reenen
Concentrating on the Fall of the Labor Share
Paper & Proceedings , volume 107 , issue 5 , p. 180 - 185 Posted: 2017
David Autor , David Dorn , Lawrence F Katz , Christina Patterson , John Van Reenen
The fall of the labor share and the rise of superstar firms
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 135 , issue 2 , p. 645 - 709 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,761
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies