Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'A Practical Application of Event Studies in Merger Assessment: Successes and Failures'

This is an Author's accepted Manuscript of an article published by Taylor & Francis Group in European Competition Journal on 2007 available online: https://doi.org/10.1080/17441056.2007.11428451

63 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2020

Ioannis Kokkoris

Queen Mary University of London

Date Written: May 2015

Abstract

The stock market’s reaction to news can be a particularly valuable source of information that may lead to inferences about the nature of a merger or a take-over. The idea underlying event studies is that the reaction of share prices - which reflect expectations about a firm’s stream of future profits - will allow alternative hypotheses as to the consequences of a merger to be tested. By examining who gains and loses when mergers or merger are announced, different hypotheses can be tested regarding expectations about market power or efficiency resulting from the merger.

The aim of this article is two-fold. First, this article aims at using event studies as an ex ante method to assess the anticompetitive impact of a merger. The movement of the share prices of the merged firms and their competitors on the announcement day indicates whether customers expected these mergers to be profitable for the firms. An assumption is made that firms increase profitability mainly by increasing prices (reducing output) in the market, thus adopting conducts having an adverse impact on competition. Similarly, the movement of the share prices of the merged firms and their competitors on the announcement day indicates whether customers expected these mergers to be profitable for the firms.


Keywords: market, prices, merger, profits

Suggested Citation:

Kokkoris, Ioannis, 'A Practical Application of Event Studies in Merger Assessment: Successes and Failures' (May 2015). This is an Author's accepted Manuscript of an article published by Taylor & Francis Group in European Competition Journal on 2007 available online: https://doi.org/10.1080/17441056.2007.11428451, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3661543 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3661543
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
J Stennek , S-O Fridolfsson
Why Event Studies Do Not Detect Anticompetitive Mergers Posted: 2000
Tomaso Duso , Damien J. Neven , Lars-Hendrik Röller
The Political Economy of European Merger Control: Evidence Using Stock Market Data
WZB Discussion Paper No. FS IV 02-34 Pages: 48 Posted: 13 Nov 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Salinger , L Schumann
Horizontal Mergers and the Market Value of Rivals: The 'In Play' Effect
Columbia First Boston Series in Money, Economics and Finance Working Paper: FB-88 Posted: 1988
Tomaso Duso , Damien J. Neven , Lars-Hendrik Röller
The Political Economy of European Merger Control: Evidence Using Stock Market Data
WZB Discussion Paper No. FS IV 02-34 Pages: 48 Posted: 13 Nov 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
542
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies