Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation as a Barrier to Blockchain Innovation

25 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2020

Michael Chatham

Radford University

Thomas K. Duncan

Radford University - Department of Economics

Date Written: July 28, 2020

Abstract

Though it is not the only cryptocurrency in circulation, Bitcoin has been one of the dominant and more highly valued digital currencies in the blockchain family. The IRS recently decided to treat Bitcoin and all other cryptocurrencies as property, thus causing ownership interests in these cryptocurrencies to generate a taxable transaction any time they are sold or traded for another good or service. We argue that taxation of cryptocurrencies and the recordkeeping necessities that come with it serve to inhibit the innovation in and growth of what could be an extremely valuable new commodity, the blockchain itself. We offer alternative strategies to mitigate the potential effects of these types of regulatory tax policies. Our work is the first to offer an analysis of the implications of tax policies on the development of blockchain technologies.

Keywords: Taxation, cryptocurrency, bitcoin, blockchain

JEL Classification: B53, H20, O31

Suggested Citation:

Chatham, Michael and Duncan, Thomas, Taxation as a Barrier to Blockchain Innovation (July 28, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3662619 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3662619
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
N Crafts
Regulation and productivity performance
Oxford Review of Economics Policy , volume 22 , issue 2 Posted: 2006
Crossref
B Mcbeath
Chief Research Officer. ChainLink Research Posted: 2018
Bartoletti &amp; Atzei , N Cimoli ; Atzei , M Bartoletti , T Cimoli
describe the current uses of Ethereum's smart contract applications, as well as pointing out several potential vulnerabilities that still must be solved in the coding process
A survey of attacks on ethereum smart contracts (SoD) . International Conference on Principles of Security and Trust , p. 164 - 186 Posted: 2017
A Sergeenkov
Healthcare and blockchain -of smart contracts, insurance, and supply chain; with a hint of AI Posted: 2019-06-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,661
RANK
248,063
2 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies