Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond fundamentals: Accounting information and the pricing of Unicorn IPOs



55 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2020 Last revised: 4 Sep 2025

Badryah Alhusaini

Arizona State University

Bradley E. Hendricks

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Kenan-Flagler Business School

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Date Written: September 01, 2025

Abstract

We examine how accounting information, financial reporting quality, and investor sentiment contribute to valuations of Unicorn IPOs, defined as firms valued above $1 billion before the IPO. Using 1,552 U.S. IPOs from 2005–2023, including 110 Unicorns, we find a distinct valuation premium beyond financial and nonfinancial fundamentals. We explore whether this premium reflects lower financial reporting quality by examining discretionary accruals and the incidence of accounting restatements and find no evidence of lower quality along these dimensions. Path analyses indicate that Unicorn categorization influences IPO underpricing both directly and indirectly through increased media coverage and retail investor trading. Additional analyses reveal that Unicorn IPOs underperform in the secondary market and exhibit no superior post-IPO operating performance. Our evidence points to a persistent tension between decision-useful fundamentals and powerful market narratives attached to categorical labels, in a prominent and economically significant setting largely unexplored in prior research.

Keywords: unicorns, initial public offering, accounting based valuation, financial reporting quality, investor sentiment

JEL Classification: G10, M13, M41

Suggested Citation:

Alhusaini, Badryah and Hendricks, Bradley E. and Landsman, Wayne R.,
Beyond fundamentals: Accounting information and the pricing of Unicorn IPOs


(September 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3663722 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3663722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
B Alhusaini , E Blankespoor , B E Hendricks , G S Miller
Finding an alternative disclosure path: IPO business model targets Posted: 2025
E Bajo , C Raimondo
Media sentiment and IPO underpricing
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 46 , p. 139 - 153 Posted: 2017
B M Barber , X Huang , P Jorion , T Odean , C Schwarz
A (sub) penny for your thoughts: Tracking retail investor activity in TAQ
The Journal of Finance , volume 79 , issue 4 , p. 2403 - 2427 Posted: 2024
B M Barber , T Odean
All that glitters: The effect of attention and news on the buying behavior of individual and institutional investors
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 785 - 818 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
667
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,180
RANK
90,228
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies