Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Coordination Challenges in Implementing the Three Lines of Defense Model

39 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2020

Ulrich Bantleon

Hochschule Offenburg

Anne Christine d'Arcy

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Anja Hucke

University of Rostock

Burkhard Pedell

University of Stuttgart

Nicole V.S. Ratzinger-Sakel

University of Hamburg

Date Written: July 30, 2020

Abstract

The Three Lines of Defense Model (TLoD) aims to provide a simple and effective way to improve coordination and enhance communications on risk management and control by clarifying the essential roles and duties of different governance functions. Without effective coordination of these governance functions, work can be duplicated or key risks may be missed or misjudged. To address these challenges, professional standards recommend that the Chief Audit Executive (CAE) coordinates activities with other internal and external governance stakeholders (assurance providers). We consider survey responses from 415 CAEs from Austria, Germany, and Switzerland to analyse determinants that help to implement the TLoD without any challenges and to explore the extent of (coordination) challenges between the internal audit function and the respective governance stakeholders. Our results show a great variance in the extent of coordination challenges dependent on different determinants and the respective governance stakeholder.

Keywords: Three Lines of Defense Model, Governance Framework, Internal Auditor, Internal Auditing Function, Chief Audit Executive, Combined Assurance

Suggested Citation:

Bantleon, Ulrich and d'Arcy, Anne and Eulerich, Marc and Hucke, Anja and Pedell, Burkhard and Ratzinger-Sakel, Nicole V.S., Coordination Challenges in Implementing the Three Lines of Defense Model (July 30, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3663955 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3663955
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit assistance and external audit timeliness
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M Arena , G Azzone
Identifying Organizational Drivers of Internal Audit Effectiveness
International Journal of Auditing , volume 13 , p. 43 - 60 Posted: 2009
Crossref
I Arndorfer , A Minto
The "four lines of defence model" for financial institutions
Financial Stability Institute Occasional Paper Posted: 2015-02-24
S Azzali , T Mazza
Is Combined Assurance Associated With Internal Audit Quality and Earnings Management?
Finance and Administrative Sciences , volume 97 , p. 84 - 102 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,358
RANK
314,223
11 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies