Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Gender Diversity in Business Groups: Exploring the Cascading Effect between Headquarters and Affiliates

59 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2020

Paula M Infantes

ESADE Business School

Bartolomé Pascual-Fuster

University of the Balearic Islands

Date Written: July 31, 2020

Abstract

This study explores the cascading effect of board gender diversity within business groups. In particular, we empirically test whether board gender diversity in headquarters is positively associated with board gender diversity in lower layers of hierarchical business groups. We, moreover, analyze the empowerment of women directors in the boardroom, and we moderate by some business groups characteristics that may impact the influence of headquarters. We find a positive relationship between board gender diversity in headquarters and affiliates. This suggests that the existence of women at the top stimulates gender diversity in affiliates, and that this finding is influenced by several business group characteristics. However, the presence of women in board executive positions is not associated with an increase in gender diversity across business groups’ affiliates.

Keywords: Women directors, board gender diversity, business groups, inter-organizational dynamics, homophily theory

Suggested Citation:

Infantes, Paula M and Pascual-Fuster, Bartolomé, Board Gender Diversity in Business Groups: Exploring the Cascading Effect between Headquarters and Affiliates (July 31, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3664613 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3664613
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
B K Boyd , R E Hoskisson
Corporate governance of business groups
The Oxford Handbook of Business Groups , p. 670 - 695 Posted: 2010
S Brammer , A Millington , S Pavelin
Gender and ethnic diversity among UK corporate boards. Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 15 , p. 393 - 403 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Bugeja , Z Matolcsy , H Spiropoulos
The Association Between Gender-Diverse Compensation Committees and CEO Compensation
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 139 , issue 2 , p. 375 - 390 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R J Burke
Women on corporate boards of directors: A needed resource
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 16 , issue 9 , p. 909 - 915 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
811
RANK
622,944
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies