Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do companies realize operational benefits from engaging a competitor’s former auditor?

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2020 Last revised: 2 Apr 2025

Tyler J. Kleppe

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 02, 2025

Abstract

This study examines whether companies realize operational benefits from engaging a new auditor recently dismissed by a competitor. While research shows that auditors can share information across clients, there is limited research on the potential impact of auditor information spillovers on clients’ operational outcomes. I find that companies that switch to a competitor’s former auditor realize significant improvements in operating performance and that this association varies predictably with several cross-sectional factors. I also find that these improvements are driven by increases in operating margins as opposed to revenue increases and that the outcomes of these switches are influenced by characteristics of the auditors and competitor companies involved in the switches. The pattern of these findings suggests that auditors may be sharing useful information with new clients after these switches. More broadly, the results suggest that the value of an audit (auditor) extends beyond the traditional considerations of capital market participants.

Keywords: Auditor information spillovers; operating performance; auditor selection; operational value of auditor knowledge.

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kleppe, Tyler J., Do companies realize operational benefits from engaging a competitor’s former auditor? (April 02, 2025). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3664966 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3664966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
The jointness of audit fees and demand for MAS: A self-selection analysis
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 295 - 322 Posted: 1990
Code of professional conduct and bylaws Posted: 2013-06-01
Joint and several liability rule reform Posted: 2014
D Anantharaman , J A Pittman , N Wans
State liability regimes within the United States and auditor reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 6 , p. 1545 - 1575 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
288
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,184
RANK
243,598
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies