Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Correlation between Corporate Social Performance and Corporate Financial Performance: Evidence from Indian Companies

International journal of basic and applied research, Volume 9 (2), 2019

Posted: 11 Sep 2020

Dhanasekar Dhamotharan

Department of Commerce and Financial Studies, Bharathidasan University

Murugesan Selvam

Department of Commerce and Financial Studies, Bharathidasan University

V. Thanikachalam

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 2019

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between Corporate Social Performance and Corporate Financial Performance in Indian firms. This study proposes to examine the various dimensions of relationship between corporate social performance and corporate financial performance in India. The Corporate Social Performance variables such as Employee, Environment, Community, Size and Salary and Wages and variables like ROA, ROE, ROS, ROCE, EPS and Sales for Corporate Financial Performance, were identified and used in the study. It was found from the analysis that there was significant and positive relationship among CSP and CFP sample variables, used in the study.


Keywords: Corporate Social Performance, Corporate Financial Performance

JEL Classification: M14, G3

Suggested Citation:

Dhamotharan, Dhanasekar and Selvam, Murugesan and Thanikachalam, V., Correlation between Corporate Social Performance and Corporate Financial Performance: Evidence from Indian Companies (February 2019). International journal of basic and applied research, Volume 9 (2), 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3664106
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
482
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies