Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bonum Requirements of the Beneficiary in the Corporate Rights Protection System in Ukraine: Implementing Best Practices

ANATOLIY V. KOSTRUBA, ROMAN A. MAYDANYK, VOLODYMYR V. LUTS. Bonum requirements of the beneficiary in the corporate rights protection system in Ukraine: Implementing best practices. ASIA LIFE SCIENCES Supplement 22(1): 1-19, 2020.

Posted: 2 Nov 2020

Anatoliy Kostruba

Université Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne

Date Written: July 27, 2020

Abstract

In the process of interaction of corporate governing bodies with other entities of corporate legal relations to ensure its organizational and economic activity, situations are possible when the parties to such interaction pursue multi-vector or mutually exclusive goals, which is caused by the polar pursuit of corporate interests. The purpose of the paper is to identify the peculiarities of bonum requirements of the beneficiary in the system of corporate rights protection in Ukraine and to study foreign experience in this aspect. The concept of bonus requirements of the beneficiary was considered as a means of protecting corporate rights and a way of resolving a corporate conflict; derivative (indirect) action was investigated as a way of resolving corporate conflict in other countries; the theoretical and statutory consolidation of the basis of civil liability of the corporation governing body is determined; the responsibility of the governing body of the corporation for the damage caused and the principle of protection of the weaker party are outlined; the concept and legal nature of the derivative action as a way of protecting the rights for damages caused by the governing body of the corporation on the basis of the dictionary definitions of the term are provided. It was concluded that the principle of protection of a weaker party in the corporate law of Ukraine is a general idea of providing legal protection of a party of legal relations, which is limited by the appropriate possibility due to self-regulated and purposeful legal actions (creation of a legal subject – legal entity) as a form of compensation of identical level of legal possibilities of participants of civil law relations.

Keywords: civil legislation, business activity, conflict, bonum requirement, beneficiary, derivative action

JEL Classification: K00, K10, K20, K30, K40

Suggested Citation:

Kostruba, Anatoliy, Bonum Requirements of the Beneficiary in the Corporate Rights Protection System in Ukraine: Implementing Best Practices (July 27, 2020). ANATOLIY V. KOSTRUBA, ROMAN A. MAYDANYK, VOLODYMYR V. LUTS. Bonum requirements of the beneficiary in the corporate rights protection system in Ukraine: Implementing best practices. ASIA LIFE SCIENCES Supplement 22(1): 1-19, 2020., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3664221
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
217
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies