Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Voting: A Complementary Mechanism to Mandatory Disclosure Regulation

53 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2020

Aleksander A. Aleszczyk

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business; London Business School

Tathagat Mukhopadhyay

Cornerstone Research

Lakshmanan Shivakumar

London Business School

Date Written: July 31, 2020

Abstract

We offer that, when regulators require firms to obtain stakeholder approval of a corporate decision through voting on a resolution, firms disclose additional information that is needed for stakeholders to understand the optimal nature of the proposal and to vote in favor of it. We suggest that this indirect regulatory approach to disclosure can improve transparency over and beyond that achieved through mandated disclosures alone. The study documents the effectiveness of this indirect regulatory mechanism in the context of Say-on-Pay rules relating to executive compensation. The analyses reveal that, even though firms were previously required to provide detailed compensation-related disclosures, the passage of the SoP rule increased disclosures further, especially among firms that had seemingly excessive pay packages. Also, firms that had previously failed their SoP voting or had received an ‘Against’ recommendation from a proxy advisor increase their compensation-related disclosures disproportionately. These additional disclosures also help the firms achieve better subsequent SoP voting outcomes. We conclude that stakeholder-voting regulations can be an effective tool to improve corporate transparency.

Keywords: Disclosure regulation, Say-on-Pay, executive compensation, key performance indicators, textual disclosures

JEL Classification: G30, M12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Aleszczyk, Aleksander and Mukhopadhyay, Tathagat and Shivakumar, Lakshmanan, Shareholder Voting: A Complementary Mechanism to Mandatory Disclosure Regulation (July 31, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3664664 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3664664
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Divya Anantharaman , Elizabeth Chuk
Standards or Incentives: What Determines Financial Reporting Transparency for Defined Benefit Pension Assets?
Pages: 49 Posted: 31 Jul 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C Armstrong , I Gow , D Larcker
The efficacy of shareholder voting: Evidence from equity-compensation plans
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 5 , p. 909 - 950 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C Armstrong , J Core , W Guay
Do independent directors cause Improvements in Firm Transparency
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 113 , issue 3 , p. 383 - 403 Posted: 2014
Crossref
S Bainbridge
Is "Say on Pay
Justified? Regulation , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 42 - 47 Posted: 2009
Load more
2 Citations
Barry Hettler , Arno Forst , James Cordeiro , Stacy Chavez
Excess insider control and corporate social responsibility: Evidence from dual-class firms
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 40 , issue 6 , p. 106877 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Heidi A. Packard , Andrea Pawliczek , A. Nicole Skinner
Voluntary Performance Disclosures in the CD&A
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 6 , p. 435 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
505
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,098
RANK
128,124
2 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies