Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organisational Culture’s Impact on Management Accounting and Control Practices in the United Arab Emirates

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, 14(1), 24-46, 2018

Posted: 11 Sep 2020

Walaa Elkelish

University of Sharjah

Robert C. Rickards

German Police University, Munster

Date Written: January 24, 2018

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of organisational culture on management accounting and control (MAC) practices in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Data were collected using a self-administered survey of companies and multiple regression analysis (ordinary least squares) was employed to test the study's hypotheses. Empirical results show internal organisational cultures characterised by high levels of adhocracy (adaptability) or low levels of hierarchy appear to be more conducive to the adoption of MAC practices. On the other hand, organisations with a more market-oriented culture seem to be less reliant on budgeting as a means for exerting management control. In addition, the service industry displays significant differences in its MAC practices relative to other sectors' behaviour. This investigation thus yields new insights into the influences affecting implementation of MAC practices, which is useful for researchers, corporate managers, and other stakeholders.

Keywords: management accounting, organisational culture, United Arab Emirates, UAE

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Elkelish, Walaa and Rickards, Robert C., Organisational Culture’s Impact on Management Accounting and Control Practices in the United Arab Emirates (January 24, 2018). International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, 14(1), 24-46, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3665398
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,001
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies