Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Audit Industry Market Share be Bought? Evidence from Audits in the Private Equity and Hedge Fund Industry

59 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2020 Last revised: 1 Oct 2025

Paul Mason

Baylor University

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 01, 2025

Abstract

Understanding how auditors gain industry market share is a fundamental, but empirically underexplored, issue in accounting research. We examine one previously unexplored way that auditors can gain industry market share: the acquisition of an industry-focused competitor. We find that the number of audit clients switching to the acquiring auditor increases following the merger, above and beyond the clients directly acquired. However, this increase is more than offset by an increase in the number of clients switching from the acquiring auditor. A poor fit between the large, acquiring auditor and the acquired clients leads to the loss of small acquired clients. Further, the acquiring auditor loses more existing clients after the merger. In sum, we find little evidence that the acquisition of an industry competitor increases industry market share. More broadly, our study is one of the few that directly examines client responses to a merger involving their supplier.

Keywords: Auditor Market Share, Auditor Changes, Hedge Funds, Private Equity, Venture Capital, Professional Services Firms, Mergers and Acquisitions

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Mason, Paul and Utke, Steven, Can Audit Industry Market Share be Bought? Evidence from Audits in the Private Equity and Hedge Fund Industry (October 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3666157 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3666157
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economic Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
H Anderson , V Havila , A Salmi
Can you buy a business relationship? On the importance of customer and supplier relationships in acquisitions
Industrial Marketing Management , volume 30 , p. 575 - 586 Posted: 2001
D Aobdia
Proprietary information spillovers and supplier choice: Evidence from auditors
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , p. 1504 - 1539 Posted: 2015
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,320
RANK
357,435
5 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies