Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implicit Attitudes and U.S. Tax Professionals’ Reliance on Offshore Tax Professionals’ Recommendations

48 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2020

Brian C. Spilker

Brigham Young University

Bryan W. Stewart

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: August 5, 2020

Abstract

Large accounting firms offshore a significant amount of tax work to professionals in India. Prior research suggests that individuals can have negative implicit attitudes toward people from different nationalities and that negative implicit attitudes can have undesired consequences. In this study, we measure a sample of U.S. tax professionals’ implicit attitudes toward Indian persons using an implicit association test (IAT) and assess whether the U.S. tax professionals respond differently to work produced by Indian versus U.S. tax professionals and whether implicit attitudes affect the U.S. professionals’ assessments of Indian tax professionals’ work product. We document that participants in our study have strong negative implicit attitudes toward Indian persons relative to U.S. persons. Conversely, we find similar reliance on and evaluation of U.S. and Indian work products, suggesting that the negative implicit attitudes observed have no relation to any of the variable measures we collect. Participants appear able to rise above their negative implicit attitudes and perform their tax work without bias in our experiment. However, it is important to acknowledge that negative implicit attitudes may result in biased behavior towards others in contexts outside of our experiment.

Keywords: India, Offshoring, Tax, Implicit attitudes, Implicit Attitude Test (IAT)

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M55, H2, H20, C9, C90

Suggested Citation:

Spilker, Brian and Stewart, Bryan W. and Wood, David A., Implicit Attitudes and U.S. Tax Professionals’ Reliance on Offshore Tax Professionals’ Recommendations (August 5, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3667785 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3667785
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
C Aberson
Interpreting null results: Improving presentation and conclusions with confidence intervals
Journal of Articles in Support of the Null Hypothesis , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 36 - 42 Posted: 2002
D Albarracin , S Shavitt
Attitudes and attitude change
Annual Review of Psychology , volume 69 Posted: 2018
Crossref
L M Andiola , D H Downey , B C Spilker , T J Noga
An examination of the interactive effect of feedback source and sign in the offshoring environment: A social identity perspective
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2018
Crossref
K M Babchishin , K L Nunes , C A Hermann
The validity of implicit association test (IAT) measures of sexual attraction to children: A meta-analysis
Archives of Sexual Behavior , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 487 - 499 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,089
RANK
672,649
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies