Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSI Index Reconstitutions: A Quasi-Natural Experiment in China

Asia-Pacific Journal of Financial Studies, Forthcoming

30 Pages Posted: 25 Nov 2020

Hongda Li

Guosen Securities

Srinivasan Selvam

EDHEC Business School - EDHEC Infrastructure Institute

Date Written: August 5, 2020

Abstract

We investigate whether the index reconstitutions of the China Securities Index (CSI) are suitable as a quasi-natural experiment to investigate the effect of institutional ownership on corporate policies. Using both actual and predicted index constituents, we document a sharp discontinuity in institutional ownership, especially of domestic mutual funds around the CSI 300 and 500 index thresholds, overcoming a key concern of the approach based on the Russell reconstitution. Using inclusion in the CSI 500 index as an instrument, we find that higher institutional ownership increases the likelihood and amount of dividends, improves firm performance, and improves the information environment surrounding firms. These findings inform us of the salience of domestic institutions in emerging markets.

Keywords: Index Reconstitution, Institutional Ownership, Dividends, Performance, Information

JEL Classification: G23, G30, G32, G35

Suggested Citation:

Li, Hongda and Selvam, Srinivasan, CSI Index Reconstitutions: A Quasi-Natural Experiment in China (August 5, 2020). Asia-Pacific Journal of Financial Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3667491 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3667491
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,132
RANK
502,079
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies