Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Simple Model of Corporate Fiduciary Duties: With an Application to Corporate Compliance

29 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2020 Last revised: 24 Aug 2021

W.C. Bunting

Stetson University - College of Law

Date Written: March 8, 2021

Abstract

This article models the duty of care as a response to moral hazard where the principal seeks to induce effort that is costly to the agent and unobservable by the principal. The duty of loyalty, by contrast, is modeled as a response to adverse selection where the principal seeks truthful disclosure of private information held by the agent. This model of corporate loyalty differs importantly with standard adverse selection models, however, in that the principal cannot use an observable and verifiable outcome as a screening mechanism to ensure honest disclosure and must rely upon an external third-party audit technology, such as the court system. This article extends these simple models to the issue of corporate compliance and argues that the optimal judicial approach would define the duty to monitor as a subset of due care–and not loyalty–but hold that the usual legal protections provided for due care violations no longer apply. The framework set forth provides a theoretical justification for drawing such a conceptual distinction.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Fiduciary Duties, Corporate Compliance, Asymmetric Information

JEL Classification: D82, G34, K22, O16

Suggested Citation:

Bunting, William, A Simple Model of Corporate Fiduciary Duties: With an Application to Corporate Compliance (March 8, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3667226 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3667226
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
J Arlen , M Spitzer , E Talley
Endowment effects within corporate agency relationships
Journal of Legal Studies , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 37 Posted: 2002
J Arlen , S Tontrup
Does the endowment effect justify legal intervention? the debiasing effect of institutions
Journal of Legal Studies , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 143 - 182 Posted: 2015
D P Baron , D Besanko
Regulation, asymmetric information, and auditing
Rand Journal of Economics , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 447 - 470 Posted: 1984
B Bartling , U Fischbacher
Shifting the blame: On delegation and responsibility
Review of Economic Studies , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 87 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,105
RANK
481,162
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies