Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Risk and Corporate Tax Avoidance: International Evidence

Posted: 21 Sep 2020 Last revised: 6 Dec 2021

Zhian Chen

University of New South Wales - School of Banking and Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Donghui Li

Shenzhen University - College of Economics

Yingzhao Ni

Jinan University - Management School

Shijie Yang

Southern University of Science and Technology

Date Written: August 6, 2020

Abstract

Employing an international sample of 30,916 firms across 71 economies spanning 2005 to 2018, this study investigates the impact of climate risk, proxied by the annual severity of extreme weather events, on corporate tax avoidance. We find a positive association between climate risk and tax avoidance. Mechanism analyses show that this positive association is due to the incentive to reserve cash in response to tightened financial constraints, rather than tax deductions granted by governments. This result is more pronounced in the countries that have poorer corporate governance and information environment, lower economic development, and more uncertain policy environment. Additional robustness checks suggest that our findings are unlikely driven by the omitted variable bias or reverse causality.

Keywords: Climate Risk, Extreme Weather, Tax Avoidance, Financial Constraints

JEL Classification: Q54, H26, G38

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Zhian and Li, Donghui and Ni, Yingzhao and Yang, Shijie, Climate Risk and Corporate Tax Avoidance: International Evidence (August 6, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3668167
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,429
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies