Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nondisclosure – A Good News Signal?

55 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2020 Last revised: 3 Oct 2022

Kyungran Lee

Neoma Business School

Date Written: September 15, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines the implications of nondisclosure in a setting where there is a credible signal of the proprietary nature of the undisclosed information. Specifically, I investigate market response to firms’ confidential treatment requests (CTRs) to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC allows firms to redact required disclosures from SEC filings through confidential treatment when the redacted information is proprietary and the redaction is not detrimental to investors. The findings show that the market reacts favorably to the voluntary nondisclosure of proprietary information with CTR redactions. Market reaction is more favorable to the redaction of information that is more likely to have proprietary value, such as information related to research and development. In addition, I find that the redacting firms experience superior accounting performance compared to that of their peers in the years following the redaction, consistent with the market’s response to the redaction. These findings indicate that a firm’s CTR redaction overall serves as a credible signal of the proprietary nature of the withheld information. The results of this study suggest a possible role for a credible signaling channel to facilitate communication between insiders and outsiders regarding the nature of withheld information. This study also has policy implications regarding the recent change in the confidential treatment process that weakens the SEC monitoring on the confidential treatment redacted information.

Keywords: Disclosure; Voluntary Nondisclosure, Redacted Information, Signaling, Proprietary Information, Confidential Treatment Order

JEL Classification: G10, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Kyungran, Nondisclosure – A Good News Signal? (September 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3668046 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3668046
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,588
RANK
291,202
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies