Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unpatented Innovation and Merger Synergies

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2020 Last revised: 11 Dec 2020

Messod D. Beneish

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Campbell R. Harvey

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Ayung Tseng

UC Davis, Graduate School of Management

Patrick Vorst

Maastricht University School of Business and Economics

Date Written: December 11, 2020

Abstract

The increasingly service-based U.S. economy places a high reliance on innovation. While there is considerable research on the importance of certain innovative activities such as patents, less attention has been paid to unpatented innovation, about which there is naturally less publicly available information. Our study exploits disclosure on the fair value of acquired innovation to show that unpatented innovation plays an important, though often ignored, role in merger value creation. We detail the importance of unpatented technology and show that traditional approaches that rely only on R&D expenditures and patents lead to both misclassification of merger types as well as underestimates of the impact of innovation in value creation. Indeed, our evidence suggests that, on aggregate, unpatented innovation accounts for a larger portion of synergies. We further show that higher (lower) gains accrue to the acquirer (the target) in relation to unpatented innovation, which is consistent with limited publicly available information about unpatented innovation reducing the target’s bargaining power.

Keywords: Acquisitions, Mergers, Synergies, Intellectual Property, Intangibles, R&D, Technology, Trade secrets, Innovation, Purchase Price Allocations

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Beneish, Messod Daniel and Harvey, Campbell R. and Tseng, Ayung and Vorst, Patrick, Unpatented Innovation and Merger Synergies (December 11, 2020). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3669294 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3669294
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
Y Cai , M Sevilir
Board connections and M&A transactions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 103 , p. 327 - 349 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Chris Carr , Larry Gorman
The Revictimization of Companies by the Stock Market Who Report Trade Secret Theft Under the Economic Espionage Act
Business Lawyer, Vol. 57, No. 1, pp. 25-53 (November 2001) Pages: 29 Posted: 1 Apr 2002 Last revised: 13 Jul 2022
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
L K Chan , J Lakonishok , T Sougiannis
The stock market valuation of research and development expenditures
Journal of Finance , volume 56 , p. 2431 - 2456 Posted: 2001
Crossref
W M Cohen , R R Nelson , J P Walsh
Protecting their intellectual assets: Appropriability conditions and why US manufacturing firms patent (or not). NBER Working paper Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
557
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,847
RANK
113,544
14 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies