Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market's Pricing and Risk-Return Trade-Offs Associated with Covenant-Lite (covlite) Issues

54 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2023 Last revised: 30 May 2023

Adnan Anil Isin

University of Exeter

Kevin McMeeking

University of Exeter Business School - Department of Finance

Rajesh Tharyan

Northumbria University

Date Written: September 28, 2020

Abstract

We examine risk-return trade-offs associated with “covlite” deals which lack systematic financial covenant compliance requirements observed in traditional “covheavy” deals. We document demand-driven risk-taking incentives in the primary market where covlite deal spreads have become increasingly borrower-friendly over time, particularly for high-risk group of issuers. Importantly, however, we find lower post-issue period default probabilities, lower secondary market bid-ask spreads, and higher secondary market pricing for covlite issues when compared to “risk-matched” covheavy alternatives. Moreover, we show that covlite deals and loan issues with flexible covenant structures have also outperformed their “risk-matched” covheavy alternatives in the secondary market pricing during the pandemic-driven market turmoil. We argue that the regulatory concerns over the accumulation of systematic risks associated with covlite deals and/or issues with flexible covenant provisions, which were predicted to strongly emerge during a market downturn, are over-rated to a certain extent. Our work presents a supporting case for covenant structures that strike some balance between investor protection and issue-level financial flexibilities under the current syndication models where most of the funding is pre-committed by institutional (non-bank) investors with complex co-ordination structures and relatively aggressive yield-generation/portfolio management needs.

Keywords: Covlite deals, Covenant flexibilities, Non-banks, COVID-19

JEL Classification: G12, G21, G23, G30

Suggested Citation:

Isin, Adnan Anil and McMeeking, Kevin and Tharyan, Rajesh, Market's Pricing and Risk-Return Trade-Offs Associated with Covenant-Lite (covlite) Issues (September 28, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3669876 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3669876
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
V V Acharya , A N Berger , R A Roman
Lending implications of US bank stress tests: Costs or benefits
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 34 , p. 58 - 90 Posted: 2018
Bain Capital
Implications of the Growth in Covenant-Lite Loans Posted: 2019
B Becker , V Ivashina
Reaching for yield in the bond market
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , issue 5 , p. 1863 - 1902 Posted: 2015
B Becker , V Ivashina
Covenant-Light Contracts and Creditor Coordination. Available at SSRN 2756926 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,273
RANK
386,825
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies