Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Earnings Expectations on Corporate Downsizing

Schulz, A-C., and M. Wiersema. 2018. “The Impact of Earnings Expectations on Corporate Downsizing.” Strategic Management Journal. Vol. 39(10):2691-2702.

21 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2020

Margarethe Wiersema

University of California, Irvine

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

We propose that due to financial market pressures, managers are forward-looking in their search and decision processes and focus on meeting performance targets set by the financial community. Using panel data on S&P 100 companies, we find that pressure felt by management to meet the analyst consensus earnings estimate influences the extent of corporate downsizing. Moreover, our results show that high levels of institutional investor stock ownership and CEO power attenuate managers’ sensitivity to financial market pressures, while high levels of analyst coverage increase their sensitivity. Our paper provides greater insight into the influence that investment analysts have on companies by investigating the impact of earnings pressure on corporate downsizing, a major strategic decision that can occur across industries. By providing evidence that downsizing is undertaken in order to meet analysts’ earnings estimates our study also contributes to our knowledge on the factors that motivate corporate downsizing. By finding that regardless of financial performance, firms utilize downsizing in order to meet analysts’ earnings estimates, we expand our understanding of the role of the financial markets, and specifically earnings pressure, on corporate downsizing decisions.

JEL Classification: L24, M4, M1, G3, G24

Suggested Citation:

Wiersema, Margarethe, The Impact of Earnings Expectations on Corporate Downsizing (2018). Schulz, A-C., and M. Wiersema. 2018. “The Impact of Earnings Expectations on Corporate Downsizing.” Strategic Management Journal. Vol. 39(10):2691-2702., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3670224
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
C L Ahmadjian , P Robinson
Safety in numbers: downsizing and the deinstitutionalization of permanent employment in Japan
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 46 , p. 622 - 654 Posted: 2001
Crossref
E Alakent , S-H Lee
Do institutionalized traditions matter during crisis? Employee downsizing in Korean manufacturing organizations
Journal of Management Studies , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 509 - 532 Posted: 2010
Crossref
P G Audia , H Greve
Less likely to fail: low performance, firm size, and factory expansion in the shipbuilding industry
Management Science , volume 52 , p. 83 - 94 Posted: 2006
Crossref
E Bartov , D Cohen
The 'numbers game' in the Pre-and Post-Sarbanes-Oxley eras
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 24 , p. 505 - 534 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
728
RANK
644,694
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies