Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Compensation, Individual-Level Tax Rates, and Insider Trading Profits

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2020 Last revised: 16 Dec 2022

Nathan C. Goldman

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

N. Bugra Ozel

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

Date Written: December 16, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether individual-level taxes affect executives’ propensity to use nonpublic information in insider trades. We predict and find a positive relation between abnormal insider trading profitability and income tax rates. Using plausibly exogenous variation in state income tax rates, we estimate that the average executive uses insider trading profits to offset between 12.2% and 19.6% of the effect that income taxes have on their net compensation. We show that the sensitivity of these profits to tax rates varies predictably with the executives’ compensation and shareholdings, firm monitoring effectiveness, and information asymmetry between insiders and outside investors. We also demonstrate a positive association between SEC enforcement actions and tax rates, suggesting that tax-rate-driven changes in abnormal trading profits expose insiders to legal risk. We find that insider trading volume exhibits little sensitivity to tax rates. Our findings show that income taxes affect executives’ tendency to use private information in their trades.

Keywords: Insider trading; executive compensation; individual-level taxes.

JEL Classification: H24; H31; J33; M12

Suggested Citation:

Goldman, Nathan C. and Ozel, N. Bugra, Executive Compensation, Individual-Level Tax Rates, and Insider Trading Profits (December 16, 2022). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3670969 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3670969
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Earnings quality, insider trading, and cost of capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 5 , p. 651 - 673 Posted: 2005
K Ahern
Information networks: Evidence from illegal insider trading tips
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 125 , issue 1 , p. 26 - 47 Posted: 2017
L Ales , C Sleet
Taxing top CEO incomes
American Economic Review , volume 106 , issue 11 , p. 3331 - 3366 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
356
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,955
RANK
192,137
1 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies