Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Internal Audit: A Review on Performance Indicators

Interdisciplinary Journal of Economics and Business Law, 7(1), 98-199.

22 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2020 Last revised: 18 Mar 2022

Christos Lemonakis

Hellenic Mediterranean University; Hellenic Mediterranean University

Ioannis Malandrakis

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Alexandros Garefalakis

Hellenic Mediterranean University

Vassiliki Balla

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 1, 2018

Abstract

This paper reviews the empirical and theoretical literature on the field of corporate governance and internal audit in banking sector and other industries, presenting selected research from 1998 up to 2017. The review has two contributions. The first aim is to examine how research on areas of corporate governance has evolved during these years (before and after the crisis period), by providing a comprehensive understanding of the existing research and the second, is to assess whether the research interest on these areas diverges due to trigger events i.e. Sarbanes–Oxley act of 2002, credit crisis of 2008 etc, detecting additional issues that could fill research gaps in the future.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Internal Audit, Banking, Non-Financial Institutions

Suggested Citation:

Lemonakis, Christos and Lemonakis, Christos and Malandrakis, Ioannis and Garefalakis, Alexandros and Balla, Vassiliki, Corporate Governance and Internal Audit: A Review on Performance Indicators (January 1, 2018). Interdisciplinary Journal of Economics and Business Law, 7(1), 98-199., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3670178
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,036
RANK
225,902
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies