Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Syndication: Is Bad News Shared in Loan Syndicates?

Review of Accounting Studies (Forthcoming)

58 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2020 Last revised: 9 Mar 2022

Andrea K. Down

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Christopher D. Williams

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Regina Wittenberg Moerman

Northwestern University

Date Written: March 1, 2022

Abstract

We investigate whether lead arrangers opportunistically withhold their private information from participant lenders and how this behavior affects the structure of loan syndicates. Using the setting of Food and Drug Administration (FDA) inspections and the exogenous shock to the inspection disclosure regime with the passage of the Open Government Initiative (OGI), we show that following bad inspection outcomes lead arrangers retain a larger loan share in the post-OGI period, when inspection outcomes are publicly disclosed by the FDA, compared to the pre-OGI period, when there is no public disclosure. We also find that during the pre-OGI period lead arrangers retain a lower loan share when a loan is issued following bad inspection outcomes compared to clean inspection outcomes. This effect is stronger when lead arrangers are more likely to be informed (as measured by their prior experience submitting Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests to the FDA and a higher inspection materiality) and when syndicate participants are less likely to be informed (as measured by the lack of their prior FDA FOIA requests, lead arranger experience, and the lack of borrowers’ voluntary disclosure of inspection outcomes). Our findings of the deterioration in borrowers’ performance following bad inspection outcomes and lead arrangers’ reputational losses in the post-OGI period further indicate lead arrangers’ opportunistic behavior. Overall, our results provide robust evidence that lead arrangers exploit their informational advantage at the expense of participant lenders.

Keywords: Syndicated loan market, Lead arrangers, Disclosure, FDA, Informational advantage, Syndicate participants

JEL Classification: D82, D83, G21, I18

Suggested Citation:

Down, Andrea K. and Williams, Christopher D. and Wittenberg Moerman, Regina, Strategic Syndication: Is Bad News Shared in Loan Syndicates? (March 1, 2022). Review of Accounting Studies (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3670397 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3670397
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
ACito v. IMCERA Group, Inc., 47 F.3d , volume 47 , p. 52 - 53 Posted: 1995
J Altonji , T E Elder , C R Taber
Selection on Observed and Unobserved Variables: Assessing the Effectiveness of Catholic Schools
Journal of Political Economy , volume 113 , p. 151 - 184 Posted: 2005
D Amiram , W H Beaver , W R Landsman , J Zhao
The effects of credit default swap trading on information asymmetry in syndicated loans
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 126 , p. 364 - 382 Posted: 2017
P Asquith , A Beatty , J Weber
Performance pricing in bank debt contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
365
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,345
RANK
186,854
1 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies