Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The complementarity between CSR disclosures and CSR contracting

56 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2020

Isabella Grabner

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Institute for Markets and Strategy

Annelies Renders

BI Norwegian School of Business

Lu Yang

Monash University

Date Written: July 14, 2024

Abstract

Over the past decades, companies faced increasing pressure to provide information about their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Firms differ however in the extent to which they communicate their CSR-related efforts to stakeholders and incorporate CSR-based performance measures in executives' incentive contracts. We examine the relationship between CSR disclosures and contracting and argue that these two practices are complements in signaling a CSR commitment. Using hand-collected data to capture the disclosure quality of CSR reports and intensity of CSR contracting for S&P 500 firms, we show that firms indeed align the adoption choices of the two practices. Further, firms using both practices intensively are associated with a stronger CSR commitment and more credible CSR disclosures. Finally, we document that firms that face higher credibility concerns show stronger complementarity between these two practices.

Keywords: CEO annual incentive contract, CSR disclosure, CSR contracting, CSR commitment, Performance measurement, Complementarity theory JEL codes: M14, M40

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Grabner, Isabella and Renders, Annelies and Yang, Lu, The complementarity between CSR disclosures and CSR contracting (July 14, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3670738 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3670738
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
S Adams , Fries , R Simnett
The journey toward Integrated Reporting. Accountants' Digest , p. 1 - 41 Posted: 2011
A Aouadi , S Marsat
Do ESG Controversies Matter for Firm Value? Evidence from International Data
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 151 , p. 1027 - 1047 Posted: 2018
S Aral , E Brynjolfsson , L Wu
Three-way complementarities: Performance pay, human resource analytics, and information technology
Management Science , volume 58 , issue 5 , p. 913 - 931 Posted: 2012
S Athey , S Stern
An empirical framework for testing theories about complimentarity in organizational design Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
592
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,150
RANK
105,158
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies