Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Pressure Behind Corporate Social Performance: Ownership and Institutional Configurations

Global Strategy Journal, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2020

Kurt A. Desender

Charles III University of Madrid - Department of Business Administration

Mircea Epure

Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF) - Department of Economics and Business; Barcelona School of Economics; UPF Barcelona School of Management

Date Written: July 24, 2020

Abstract

Research summary: Drawing on the “varieties of capitalism” literature, we develop an actor-centered framework that explains firm-level corporate social performance (CSP) by emphasizing the importance of considering owners’ and other stakeholders’ motives towards CSP — which can be instrumental, relational or moral — and their salience in the national institutional setting. Results from an international panel show that investment company (government) ownership has a stronger negative (positive) relationship with CSP in liberal markets, in which owners are the key stakeholder, as compared to coordinated markets, which counterbalance the interests of multiple stakeholders. Family and company ownership have weaker links to CSP across institutional settings. We discuss implications for research and practice and argue that CSP policies may hold more relevance in liberal rather than coordinated market economies.

Managerial summary: Existing debates focus on the impact of corporate social performance (CSP) on firm outcomes. Less is known about the motives and pressures behind CSP, which may explain its variability across firms and institutional settings. We argue that powerful owners’ motives are important for explaining CSP in liberal markets, where shareholders are the most important stakeholder, as compared to coordinated markets, which confer prominence to multiple stakeholders. Owners’ motives are not homogeneous and depending on the type of owners the link between ownership concentration and CSP can be negative (for investment companies) or positive (for governments). In coordinated markets, owners have a weaker impact on CSP, which is mostly attributable to their lower salience relative to stakeholders, rather than to a change in their motives.

Keywords: corporate governance, corporate social performance, ownership, stakeholders, institutions

JEL Classification: G34, M1, M14, M4, F23

Suggested Citation:

Desender, Kurt A. and Epure, Mircea, The Pressure Behind Corporate Social Performance: Ownership and Institutional Configurations (July 24, 2020). Global Strategy Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3671618 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3671618
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
R V Aguilera , K Desender , M K Bednar , J H Lee
Connecting the dots: Bringing external corporate governance into the corporate governance puzzle , volume 9 , p. 483 - 573 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R V Aguilera , B Grøgaard
The dubious role of institutions in international business: A road forward
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 20 - 35 Posted: 2019
Crossref
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
The cross-national diversity of corporate governance: Dimensions and determinants , volume 28 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R V Aguilera , D E Rupp , C A Williams , J Ganapathi
Putting the S back in corporate social responsibility: A multilevel theory of social change in organizations
Academy of Management Review , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 836 - 863 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
894
RANK
484,103
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies