Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure: Evidence from Pakistan

Iqra Journal of Business & Management, 2018

20 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2020

Faisal Khan

University of Peshawar

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

In this study panel data in standard and natural log form from year 2013 to 2017 of 100 Pakistani listed non-financial firms is analyzed through fixed effect regression model to investigate effect of size of firm, profitability, leverage, and liquidity on corporate social responsibility disclosure by firms. In line with the explanation of legitimacy theory, it is found that large and profitable firms disclose more information than small and less profitable firms. The results show that return on asset and size of firm are persistently positively related to corporate social responsibility disclosure. However, net profit margin, and return on equity fails to support the findings. Leverage and liquidity are found to have negative but insignificant association with corporate social responsibility disclosure; where result of liquidity is in line with the explanation of stakeholder theory.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure, fixed effect, Pakistan stock exchange

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Faisal, Determinants of Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure: Evidence from Pakistan (2018). Iqra Journal of Business & Management, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3672077
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
A Razaka , S E Mustapha , M
Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosures and Board Structure: Evidence from Malaysia Posted: 2013
N Abu-Baker , K Naser
Empirical evidence on corporate social disclosure (CSD) practices in Jordan
International Journal of Commerce and Management , volume 10 , issue 3/4 , p. 18 - 34 Posted: 2000
Crossref
N Ahmad , M Sulaiman , D Siswantoro
Corporate social responsibility disclosures in Malaysia: An analysis of annual reports of KLSE listed companies
Journal of Economics and Management , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 37 Posted: 2003
M Akhtaruddin , M A Hossain , M Hossain , L Yao
Corporate governance and voluntary disclosure in corporate annual reports of Malaysian listed firms
Journal of Applied Management Accounting Research , volume 7 , issue 1 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
688
RANK
538,134
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies