Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Available-for-sale is Available for Hoarding: When Non-financial Firms Hold Financial Assets

Journal of Banking and Finance, 2025

72 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2020 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Xiaoran Ni

Xiamen University - School of Economics; Xiamen University - Wang Yanan Institute for Studies in Economics (WISE)

Yuchao Peng

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Finance

Ji Shen

Peking University

Samuel A. Vigne

Luiss Guido Carli University - Luiss Business School

NanXuan Wang

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Finance

Date Written: November 20, 2024

Abstract

This paper empirically examines how listed non-financial firms use the “call option” feature of one of the most important financial assets, available-for-sale securities, as earnings manipulation tools owing to bad-news-hoarding motives. In 2007, China set its first accounting standards for financial instruments, which classify financial assets based on the highly subjective “managerial holding intention” criterion. We find that holding available-for-sale securities is positively associated with the likelihood of stock price crashes in Chinese listed firms. The main effect is more pronounced under lax external regulation and lower information transparency. It is further accentuated when CEOs have lower educational backgrounds, weaker competence in managing core business activities, or face greater performance pressures. Our findings indicate that, in typical emerging markets, fair value accounting may have unintended consequences, inducing non-financial firms to employ financial assets as tools to hoard bad news.

Keywords: available-for-sale securities, bad news hoarding, stock price crash risk, earnings manipulation, fair value accounting

JEL Classification: G31; G34; G14

Suggested Citation:

Ni, Xiaoran and Peng, Yuchao and Shen, Ji and Vigne, Samuel A. and Wang, Nanxuan, Available-for-sale is Available for Hoarding: When Non-financial Firms Hold Financial Assets (November 20, 2024). Journal of Banking and Finance, 2025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3672432 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3672432
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
J W Allen , G M Phillips
Corporate Equity Ownership, Strategic Alliances, and Product Market Relationships
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2791 - 2815 Posted: 2000
H An , T Zhang
Stock price synchronicity, crash risk, and institutional investors
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 21 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2013
C K Andreou , P C Andreou , N Lambertides
Financial distress risk and stock price crashes
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 67 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,479
RANK
257,340
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies