Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Strategy Disclosure: A Greenwashing Mandate?

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 40

74 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2020 Last revised: 29 Feb 2024

Katarzyna Anna Bilicka

Utah State University

Elisa Casi

Norwegian School of Economics (NHH) - Department of Business and Management Science

Carol Seregni

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Barbara Stage

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: February 26, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the effects of a qualitative tax disclosure mandate aimed at improving tax transparency and compliance by imposing reputational costs for firms. We use, as an exogenous shock, the 2016 UK reform that required large businesses to disclose their tax strategy. We find that treated firms—those that must publish a tax strategy report—also significantly increase the volume of tax strategy disclosure in their annual reports but this disclosure contains more boilerplate. The standalone tax strategy reports contain narratives similar to those in the annual reports, are sticky, and their quality is correlated with those of disclosures on gender and human rights. Turning to real behavioral changes, we document no significant effect on tax planning across several proxies and firm characteristics. While we find that the mandate increased media attention on treated firms, our results suggest that this enforcement channel might not work in the context of qualitative disclosure, which may be hard to verify for outside stakeholders. Even in subsamples of firms that we would expect to behave differently, we document similar responses. Taken together, our findings indicate that mandating qualitative tax disclosure has incentivized firms to portray themselves as good tax citizens without changing their practices.


Keywords: Disclosure Regulation, Nonfinancial Disclosure, Corporate Social Responsibility, Tax Transparency, Corporate Tax Avoidance

JEL Classification: G38, M41, M48, H26, H20

Suggested Citation:

Bilicka, Katarzyna Anna and Casi-Eberhard, Elisa and Seregni, Carol and Stage, Barbara, Tax Strategy Disclosure: A Greenwashing Mandate? (February 26, 2024). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 40, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3672420 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3672420
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
E Allen , D E O'leary , H Qu , C W Swenson
Tax Specific versus Generic Accounting-Based Textual Analysis and the Relationship with Effective Tax Rates: Building Context
Journal of Information Systems , volume 35 , p. 115 - 147 Posted: 2021
W Antweiler , M Z Frank
Is all that talk just noise? Information content of internet stock message boards
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 1259 - 1294 Posted: 2004
B A , S P Katz , S O Rego , R J Wilson
Conforming tax avoidance and capital market pressure
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2019
M Bailey , S Glaeser , J D Omartian , A Raghunandan
Misreporting of mandatory ESG disclosures: Evidence from gender pay gap information Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
423
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,033
RANK
158,049
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies