Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Determinants of Shareholders’ Wealth of Acquiring Firms in India

Journal of Modern Accounting and Auditing, 6(1), 2010

Posted: 29 Sep 2020

Murugesan Selvam

Department of Commerce and Financial Studies, Bharathidasan University

Dr. S. Vanitha

Assistant Professor, Department of Commerce and Financial Studies, Bharathidasan University, Tiruchirappalli, Tamil Nadu, India.

Gayathri Jayapal

Bharathidasan University - Department of Commerce and Financial Studies

Ebenezer Bennet

All Nations University College; Bharathidasan University

Dr. P. Nageswari Sathish

Bharathidasan University

Date Written: January 2010

Abstract

Corporate restructuring has become a major component in the financial and economic environment all over the world. Industrial restructuring has raised important issues for business decisions as well as for public policy formulation. Since 1991, Indian industries have been increasingly exposed to both domestic and international competition and competitiveness. The companies started restructuring there operations around their core business there M & A. But M & A is an area of potential good and harm in corporate strategy including manufacturing industry. Therefore, an attempt has been made to analyze the security returns and to find out the net wealth increase or decrease to the shareholders of acquiring firms. In India, there are totally 58 manufacturing companies which have undergone mergers and acquisitions during 2000, 2001 & 2002. Thirty percentage from the total population was taken as sample size (i.e., 17 companies out of 58). The present study is mainly based on secondary data. The Market Model and Market Adjusted Returns Model analysis are used as tools of analysis.

Keywords: corporate restructuring; mergers and acquisitions; accounting ratios; cumulative abnormal returns; independent and dependent variables

Suggested Citation:

Selvam, Murugesan and Vanitha, Dr. S. and Jayapal, Gayathri and Bennet, Ebenezer and Sathish, P. Nageswari, The Determinants of Shareholders’ Wealth of Acquiring Firms in India (January 2010). Journal of Modern Accounting and Auditing, 6(1), 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3672961
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
437
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies