Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Policy and Corporate Financial Performance: Evidence from Selected Listed Consumer Goods Firms in Nigeria

Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.3 No.3 (2020)

12 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2020

Chukwuma C. Ugwu

Federal University Wukari, Nigeria

Virginia N. Onyeka

Federal University Wukari, Nigeria

Iyana E. Okwa

Federal University Wukari, Nigeria

Date Written: August 12, 2020

Abstract

This study evaluated the dividend policy and corporate financial performance with evidence from selected listed consumer good firms in Nigeria within the period 2015-2019; using dividend pay-out ratio, earnings per share and dividend per share as proxies for dividend policy and Return on equity as proxy for financial performance with two control variables; firm size and financial leverage. The study employed correlation and ex-post facto research designs. Descriptive statistics and multiple regressions were used for data analysis. Secondary data were used, which were extracted from the Central Bank of Nigeria statistical bulletin and the Audited Annual Reports of the ten selected listed consumer goods firms in Nigeria. The results of the study show that dividend pay-out ratio; earnings per share and dividend per share are positively related to return on equity. It also revealed that dividend pay-out ratio and earnings per share were statistically insignificant with the return on equity while dividend per share was statistically significant with return on equity within the period of study. The study therefore recommends that firms should adopt a dividend policy strategy that will guarantee greater financial performance to improve on the dividend per share. It is also recommended that management should act in the best interest of the shareholders as this will go a long way in reducing agency problem. The implication of this finding is that if firms do not adopt a good dividend policy strategy that will benefit the shareholders, investors will lose interest in the firm and this will threaten the growth of some of these consumer goods firms in the future.

Keywords: Dividend Policy, Financial Performance, Dividend Pay-Out Ratio, Earnings Per Share, Dividend Per Share

Suggested Citation:

Ugwu, Chukwuma C. and Onyeka, Virginia N. and Okwa, Iyana E., Dividend Policy and Corporate Financial Performance: Evidence from Selected Listed Consumer Goods Firms in Nigeria (August 12, 2020). Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.3 No.3 (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3672279
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Amidu
How Does Dividend Policy Affect Performance Of The Firm On Ghana Stock Exchange
Investment Management And Financial Innovations , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 112 Posted: 2007
G Akinleye , D S Ademiloye
Dividend policy and performance of quoted manufacturing firms in Nigeria Posted: 2018
M A Al-Hasan , M Asaduzzaman , R A Karim
The effect of dividend policy on share price: An evaluative study
IOSR Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 1 , issue 4 , p. 6 - 66 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Al-Malkawi
Determinants Of Corporate Dividend Policy In Jordan: An Application Of The Tobit Model
Journal Of Economic & Administrative Sciences , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 44 - 70 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
745
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,542
RANK
78,285
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies