Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of CEO/CFO Outside Directorships on Auditor Selection and Audit Quality

Forthcoming, European Accounting Review

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2021-123

52 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2020

Jaeyoon Yu

Central Michigan University - College of Business Administration

Byungjin Kwak

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Myung Seok Park

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - School of Business

Yoonseok Zang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: August 3, 2020

Abstract

We examine whether outside directorships of chief executive officer/chief financial officer (CEO/CFO) and resulting network ties to auditors affect auditor selection decisions and subsequent audit quality. The network ties arise when the CEO/CFO of a firm (home firm) serves as an outside director of another firm that hires an auditor (connected auditor). Using a sample of firms that switch auditors in the post-Sarbanes-Oxley Act period, we find that home firms are more likely to appoint connected auditors. We also find that home firms hiring connected auditors experience a significant decline in subsequent audit quality, compared to those hiring non-connected auditors. Specifically, the increases in the likelihood of misstatements, the magnitude of absolute discretionary accruals, and the propensity to meet or beat earnings benchmarks after home firms appoint connected auditors are significantly greater, compared to those for other firms switching to non-connected auditors. We further find that the decline in audit quality is more pronounced when the network is established at the local office level.

Keywords: CEO/CFO outside directorship, auditor selection, audit quality, auditor independence

JEL Classification: G34, M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Yu, Jaeyoon and Kwak, Byungjin and Park, Myung Seok and Zang, Yoonseok, The Impact of CEO/CFO Outside Directorships on Auditor Selection and Audit Quality (August 3, 2020). Forthcoming, European Accounting Review, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2021-123, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3673066
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
D Aobdia
Proprietary information spillovers and supplier choice: Evidence from auditors
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1504 - 1539 Posted: 2015
Crossref
W R Baber , J Krishnan , Y Zhang
Investor perceptions of the earnings quality consequences of hiring an affiliated auditor
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 102 Posted: 2014
Crossref
J Bacon , J K Brown
Corporate directorship practices: Role, selection and legal status of the board Posted: 1975
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,178
RANK
538,134
1 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies