Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Market Consequences of the Libor Scandal and Phaseout for Public Borrowers

36 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2020 Last revised: 16 Oct 2020

Jonathan Berkovitch

Luiss Guido Carli University - Department of Business and Management

Henry L. Friedman

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Anderson School of Management

Daniel Saavedra

UCLA Anderson School of Management

Date Written: August 13, 2020

Abstract

The London Interbank Offer Rate (LIBOR), based on inputs from banks, is plausibly the most important set of reference interest rates in the world. Following the LIBOR rigging scandal and the post-2008 decline in interbank lending underpinning LIBOR, banks and regulators have agreed to sustain LIBOR only through the end of 2021, after which, LIBOR updates are likely to cease. In this paper, we use an event-based design to study the implications of the LIBOR scandal and phaseout (LSP) on capital markets, focusing on firms with U.S.-traded public debt. Using LSP events as exogenous shocks to the optimality of existing contracts, we provide causal evidence on the effects of the LSP on firms and their stakeholders. Our findings suggest that the consequences of the LSP, as measured by stock and bond returns, are immaterial for the average firm, but negative for firms with fewer outside options to renegotiate or repurchase debt (i.e., with credit ratings below investment grade or lower interest coverage ratios). These results suggest that the negative consequences of the LSP have mostly been borne by the shareholders and bondholders of borrowers with limited options to renegotiate or repurchase debt.

Keywords: LIBOR scandal, LIBOR phaseout, debt contracting, incomplete contracting

JEL Classification: M40, G12, G14, E4

Suggested Citation:

Berkovitch, Jonathan and Friedman, Henry L. and Saavedra, Daniel, Capital Market Consequences of the Libor Scandal and Phaseout for Public Borrowers (August 13, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3673505 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3673505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
R M Abrantes-Metz , M Kraten , A D Metz , G S Seow
LIBOR manipulation? Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 36 , p. 136 - 150 Posted: 2012
Crossref
D Amiram , A Kalay , A Kalay , N B Ozel
Information asymmetry and the bond coupon choice
Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 37 - 59 Posted: 2017
Crossref
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Alternative Reference Rates Committee Report Posted: 2018-06-07
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
463
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,345
RANK
142,252
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies