Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Outsourcing and Voluntary Disclosure

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

68 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2020 Last revised: 29 Nov 2023

Lili Dai

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Rui Dai

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS); The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen (CUHK-Shenzhen)

Lilian Ng

York University - Schulich School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Zihang Ryan Peng

University of New South Wales

Date Written: November 24, 2023

Abstract

Reliance on global outsourcing has become an economic imperative for many major corporations worldwide, but at the same time, it has brought substantial risks and complexities to these firms. This study employs novel international supply chain data to examine whether global outsourcing of goods or services shapes U.S. corporate disclosure policies. Our main results suggest a negative impact of global outsourcing exposure on voluntary disclosure, and several identification tests further support this baseline evidence. We find that the adverse effect on disclosure is more pronounced when institutional differences are more significant between the U.S. and foreign suppliers’ countries and when U.S. firms face higher litigation risks. However, the effect weakens when investors and stakeholders demand more information. Collectively, our study provides new insights into the economic implications of outsourcing globally from an information disclosure perspective.

Keywords: Global Outsourcing, Voluntary Disclosure; Supply Network

JEL Classification: F23, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dai, Lili and Dai, Rui and Ng, Lilian and Peng, Zihang Ryan, Global Outsourcing and Voluntary Disclosure (November 24, 2023). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3674690 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3674690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
D Acemoglu , V M Carvalho , A Ozdaglar , A Tahbaz-Salehi
The network origins of aggregate fluctuations
Econometrica , volume 80 , issue 5 , p. 1977 - 2016 Posted: 2012
S Agca , J R Birge , Z Wang , J Wu
The impact of covid-19 on supply chain credit risk. Working paper Posted: 2020
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
B B Ajinkya , M J Gift
Corporate managers' earnings forecasts and symmetrical adjustments of market expectations
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 425 - 444 Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
665
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,413
RANK
90,403
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies