Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Killer Acquisitions and Beyond: Policy Effects on Innovation Strategies

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP15167

74 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2020 Last revised: 9 Nov 2021

Igor Letina

University of Bern - Department of Economics

Armin Schmutzler

University of Zurich - Department of Economics; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Regina Seibel

University of Zurich

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 2020

Abstract

This paper provides a theory of strategic innovation project choice by incumbents and start-ups which serves as a foundation for the analysis of acquisition policy. We show that prohibiting acquisitions has a weakly negative innovation effect. We provide conditions determining the size of the effect and, in particular, conditions under which it is zero. We further analyze the effects of less restrictive policies, including merger remedies and the tax treatment of acquisitions and initial public offerings. Such interventions tend to prevent acquisitions only if the entrant has sufficiently high stand-alone profits.

Keywords: Innovation, killer acquisitions, Merger Policy, Potential competition, start-ups

JEL Classification: G34, L41, O31

Suggested Citation:

Letina, Igor and Schmutzler, Armin and Seibel, Regina, Killer Acquisitions and Beyond: Policy Effects on Innovation Strategies (August 2020). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP15167, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3674957
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
43 References
D Bardey , B Jullien , J.-M Lozachmeur
Health insurance and diversity of treatment
Journal of Health Economics , volume 47 , p. 50 - 63 Posted: 2016
G Bavly , Y Heller , A Schreiber
Social welfare in search games with asymmetric information Posted: 2020
N Bloom , J Van Reenen , H Williams
A toolkit of policies to promote innovation
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 163 - 184 Posted: 2019
M Bourreau , A De Streel
Digital Conglomerates and EU Competition Policy
Télecom Paris-Tech Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4
ABSTRACT VIEWS
744
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies