Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Product Market Competition in Accounting, Finance, and Corporate Governance: A Review of the Literature

59 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2020

Md. Babar

Massey University - Massey University Auckland

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Date Written: August 16, 2020

Abstract

Product market competition has been identified as one of the most powerful corporate governance tools for motivating managers to maximize firm value. Consistent with this view, a large body of theoretical and empirical research over the years has investigated the implications of product market competition. This paper synthesizes and critically evaluates the empirical literature on the consequences of product market competition in the accounting, finance, and corporate governance domains. Our review focuses on issues like financial reporting quality, analyst forecasting activities, asset pricing, investment, and financing decisions, and the substitutive versus complementary relationships between product market competition and other corporate governance tools. Our review suggests that, although market competition has profound implications for these issues, the empirical findings often provide conflicting results. We highlight such contradictory findings and offer suggestions for future research. Our review will help researchers intending to further investigate the implications of product market competition, both in the US and internationally.

Keywords: Product Market Competition, Financial Reporting, Corporate Governance, Finance

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G30, L16, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Babar, Md. and Habib, Ahsan, Product Market Competition in Accounting, Finance, and Corporate Governance: A Review of the Literature (August 16, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3674707 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3674707
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
182 References
H Abdoh , O Varela
Product market competition, idiosyncratic and systematic volatility
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 43 , p. 500 - 513 Posted: 2017
Crossref
H A A Abdoh , O Varela
Product market competition, cash flow and corporate investments
Managerial Finance , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 221 Posted: 2018
Crossref
P Aghion , M Dewatripont , P Rey
Competition, financial discipline and growth
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 66 , issue 4 , p. 825 - 852 Posted: 1999
Crossref
P Aghion , P Howitt
A Schumpeterian perspective on growth and competition
New Theories in Growth and Development , p. 9 - 49 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
672
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,581
RANK
89,153
182 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies