Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Tenure and the Quality of Corporate Bond Ratings

Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 3674999

49 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2020 Last revised: 13 Jul 2022

Eliza Xia Zhang

University of Washington, Tacoma - Milgard School of Business

Jason D. Schloetzer

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Date Written: August 16, 2020

Abstract

We examine the implication of management for credit rating quality by focusing on the relation between management tenure and rating quality. Using a large sample of corporate bond issues in the U.S., we find robust evidence that firms with longer-tenured CEOs have lower rating quality, as reflected in lower rating accuracy, informativeness, and timeliness. Further analyses uncover two channels that underlie this relation. One channel is through learned confidence: as CEO tenure increases, rating agencies learn about how the CEO influences firm value, which leads agencies to reduce their caution and effort in management assessment. The other channel is through developed relationships: as CEO tenure increases, rating agencies develop relationships with the CEO, which leads agencies to reduce scrutiny of or cater to the CEO and her firm. Overall, we show that management tenure has important implications for the external oversight of rating agencies.

Keywords: External Monitoring; Credit Ratings; Rating Quality; Qualitative Analysis; Relationship; Chief Executive Officers; CEO Tenure

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Eliza Xia and Schloetzer, Jason D., Management Tenure and the Quality of Corporate Bond Ratings (August 16, 2020). Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 3674999, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3674999
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
C Ai , E Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
W Alissa , S Bonsall , K Koharki , M Penn
Firms' use of accounting discretion to influence their credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , p. 129 - 147 Posted: 2013
J Angrist , J-S Pischke , ; Ashbaugh-Skaife , H , D Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firm's credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , issue 1-2 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
D C Badoer , C Demiroglu
The relevance of credit ratings in transparent bond markets
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 42 - 74 Posted: 2019
Load more
1 Citations
Hui L. James , Pornsit Jiraporn , Hongxia Wang
CEO Tenure and Labor Investment Efficiency
JCAE-D-24-189 · 59 Pages · Posted: 20 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 51
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,075
RANK
765,896
1 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies