Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of the Global Energy Industry, Climate Change and Financial Matters: The Need for Effective Corporate Governance

International Journal of Corporate Governance, 10(3-4), 2019, 185-208

42 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2020

Todd Broker

Murray State University - College of Business

David Durr

Murray State University - College of Business

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

Energy companies provide critical economic resources for advanced societies. Yet, critics complain about climate change and excess profits. A plethora of research offers ample evidence, from scientific and policy experts, that climate change is not a significant problem, whether human-caused or otherwise. For example, Richard Lindzen, the Alfred P. Sloan Professor of Meteorology at MIT from 1983 to 2013, called “global warming” proponents discredited alarmists. Financial analysis shows energy companies are less profitable than those in other industries. Findings of this study are meaningful to academic researchers and corporate leaders, particularly if concerned with corporate governance of energy companies. Energy company managers would do well to inform the public, government leaders, and policy makers about the unfair charges of environmental harm and excess profitability, and assert the positive contributions of energy companies to the world economy.

Keywords: Energy industry, economic performance, oil and gas firms, environment, climate change

JEL Classification: G3, G38, M41, Q4, Q5

Suggested Citation:

Broker, Todd and Durr, David and Smith, Murphy, Analysis of the Global Energy Industry, Climate Change and Financial Matters: The Need for Effective Corporate Governance (2019). International Journal of Corporate Governance, 10(3-4), 2019, 185-208, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3674542 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3674542
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
Aapg
American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG)
Architect of the Capitol Posted: 2016-04-29
R T Beckwith
Here's the Sculpture of Moses That Netanyahu Referenced
Time. Retrieved Posted: 2015-03-03
A Beattie
5 Biggest Risks faced By Oil and Gas Companies
Yahoo News. Retrieved , volume 22 Posted: 2012-07
E Black
War Against the Weak: Eugenics and America's Campaign to Create a Master Race Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,046
RANK
588,270
2 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies