Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Confidence Accounting: A Proposal

Confidence Accounting - Long Finance, 2012

66 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2020

Ian Harris

Z/Yen Group Limited

Michael Mainelli

Gresham College; Z/Yen Group

Jan-Peter Onstwedder

Z/Yen Group Limited

Date Written: July 01, 2012

Abstract

Confidence Accounting is a proposal to use distributions, rather than discrete values, where appropriate in auditing and accounting. In a world of Confidence Accounting, the end results of audits would be presentations of distributions for major entries in the profit & loss, balance sheet and cashflow statements. The proposed benefits of Confidence Accounting include a fairer representation of financial results, reduced footnotes, more measurable audit quality and a mitigation of mark-to-market perturbations. The landmark, free-to-download report was published on 5 July 2012.

Andy Haldane, Executive Director for Financial Stability at the Bank of England welcomes the proposal and writes in the foreword, “My hope is that this proposal moves our thinking a step closer towards a set of accounting standards for major entities that put systemic stability centre stage. In the light of the crisis, anything less than a radical re-think would be negligent.”

Responses to the July 2012 report are available online. The publication included a invitation to readers to comment on the content of the proposal. A questionnaire was circulated during events and was also available online. Read the Confidence Accounting Consultation Responses for more information.

Keywords: Accounting, Confidence Accounting, Auditing, Distribution

JEL Classification: G00 - General

Suggested Citation:

Harris, Ian and Mainelli, Michael and Mainelli, Michael and Onstwedder, Jan-Peter, Confidence Accounting: A Proposal (July 01, 2012). Confidence Accounting - Long Finance, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3676509
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
M Mainelli
Accounting for Confidence
Accountancy Futures , volume 3 , p. 56 - 63 Posted: 2011
M Mainelli
Accounting for Confidence
Securities & Investment Review , p. 22 - 25 Posted: 2011-09
M Mainelli
Banking on Confidence: Rethinking Audits of Financial Institutions', Corporate Governance & Sustainability Challenges , p. 88 - 91 Posted: 2011-10
M Mainelli
Confidence Accounting: Putting Essential Uncertainty Back Into Auditing And Accounting
Journal of Risk Finance , volume 10 , issue 3 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Ian Harris , Michael Mainelli , Jan-Peter Onstwedder
Confidence Accounting: A Proposal
Confidence Accounting - Long Finance, 2012 · 66 Pages · Posted: 6 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 91
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
641
RANK
658,366
1 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies