Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
For Whom Corporate Leaders Bargain

Southern California Law Review, Volume 94, 2021, pp. 1467-1560
Harvard Law School Program on Corporate Governance Working Paper no. 2020-4


99 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2020 Last revised: 6 Mar 2023

Lucian A. Bebchuk

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Kobi Kastiel

Tel Aviv University - Buchmann Faculty of Law; Harvard Law School, Program on Corporate Governance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Roberto Tallarita

Harvard Law School

Date Written: August 19, 2020

Abstract

At the center of a fundamental and heated debate about corporate purpose, an increasingly influential “stakeholderism” view advocates giving corporate leaders the discretionary power to serve all stakeholders and not just shareholders. Supporters of stakeholderism argue that its application would address growing concerns about the impact of corporations on society and the environment. By contrast, critics of stakeholderism argue that corporate leaders should not be expected to use expanded discretion to benefit stakeholders. This Article presents novel empirical evidence that can contribute to resolving this key debate.

Stakeholderist arguments regarding the potential stakeholder effects of hostile takeovers contributed to the adoption of constituency statutes by more than thirty U.S. states. These statutes, which remain in place and continue to govern corporate transactions, authorize corporate leaders to give weight to stakeholder interests when considering a sale of their company. We study how corporate leaders in fact used their discretion in transactions governed by such statutes in the past two decades. In particular, using hand-collected data, we provide a detailed analysis of more than one hundred cases governed by such statutes in which corporate leaders negotiated a company sale to a private equity buyer.

We find that corporate leaders have used their discretion to obtain gains for shareholders, executives, and directors. However, despite the clear risks that private equity acquisitions often posed for stakeholders, corporate leaders generally did not use their discretion to negotiate for any stakeholder protections. Indeed, in the small minority of cases in which some stakeholder protections were formally included, they were generally cosmetic and practically inconsequential.

Beyond the implications of our findings for the long-standing debate on constituency statutes, these findings also provide important lessons for the ongoing debate on stakeholderism. At a minimum, stakeholderists should identify the causes for constituency statutes’ failure to deliver stakeholder benefits in the analyzed cases, and examine whether embracing stakeholderism would not similarly fail to produce such benefits. After examining alternative explanations for our findings, we conclude that the most plausible explanation lies in corporate leaders’ incentives not to protect stakeholders beyond what would serve shareholder value. Our findings thus indicate that stakeholderism cannot be relied on to produce its purported benefits for stakeholders. Stakeholderism therefore should not be supported as an effective way for protecting stakeholder interests, even by those who deeply care about stakeholders.

Presentation slides for this paper are available on SSRN here .


This paper is part of a larger research project of the Harvard Law School Corporate Governance on stakeholder capitalism and stakeholderism. Other parts of this research project include The Illusory Promise of Stakeholder Governance by Lucian A. Bebchuk and Roberto Tallarita, Will Corporations Deliver Value to All Stakeholders? by by Lucian A. Bebchuk and Roberto Tallarita, Stakeholder Capitalism in the Time of COVID by Lucian A. Bebchuk, Kobi Kastiel, and Roberto Tallarita, The Perils and Questionable Promise of ESG-Based Compensation by Lucian A. Bebchuk and Roberto Tallarita, Does Enlightened Shareholder Value Add Value? by Lucian A. Bebchuk, Kobi Kastiel, and Roberto Tallarita, and How Twitter Pushed Stakeholders Under The Bus by Lucian A. Bebchuk, Kobi Kastiel, and Anna Toniolo.

Keywords: corporate purpose, stakeholders, stakeholder-ism, stakeholder governance, stakeholder capitalism, constituency statutes, corporate social responsibility, corporate governance, agency costs, entrenchment, accountability, managerial-ism, private equity, mergers & acquisitions

JEL Classification: D21, G32, G34, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bebchuk, Lucian A. and Kastiel, Kobi and Tallarita, Roberto, For Whom Corporate Leaders Bargain (August 19, 2020). Southern California Law Review, Volume 94, 2021, pp. 1467-1560
Harvard Law School Program on Corporate Governance Working Paper no. 2020-4
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3677155 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3677155
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Business Roundtable Redefines the Purpose of a Corporation to Promote 'an Economy that Serves All Americans Posted: 2019-08-19
George Santayana
THE LIFE OF REASON OR THE PHASES OF HUMAN PROGRESS , volume 284 Posted: 1905
See infra Sections I.A-B
See infra notes 35-38 and accompanying text
Load more
6 Citations
Hiroyuki Watanabe
Japan’s Corporate Governance Code From the Perspective of ‘Sustainable Growth of the Company and Improvement of Medium- to Long-Term Corporate Value’ [Appendix] Comments on Recent Criticisms of "Stakeholderism" and "Anti-Criticism of Short-Termism"
49 Pages · Posted: 27 Nov 2020 · Last revised: 17 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 717
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dorothy S. Lund
Enlightened Shareholder Value, Stakeholderism, and the Quest for Managerial Accountability
Research Handbook on Corporate Purpose and Personhood (Elizabeth Pollman & Robert Thompson, eds., Forthcoming, USC CLASS Research Paper Series No. CLASS21-12, USC Law Legal Studies Paper No. 21-12 · 17 Pages · Posted: 12 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 28 Apr 2021 · Downloads: 510
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bradford Cornell , Alan Shapiro
Corporate Stakeholders, Corporate Valuation, and ESG
25 Pages · Posted: 20 Nov 2020 · Last revised: 30 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 1,102
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
James D. Cox , Randall S. Thomas
Resisting the Return to Managerialism: Institutionalizing the Shareholder Voice in the Monitoring Model
Duke Law School Public Law & Legal Theory Series No. 2020-81 · 24 Pages · Posted: 23 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 333
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
18,457
RANK
8,418
6 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies