Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Reporting: - Review of Indian Scenario

IJRAR - International Journal of Research and Analytical Reviews (IJRAR), E-ISSN 2348-1269, P- ISSN 2349-5138, Volume.7, Issue 2, Page No pp.803-816, April 2020

14 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2020

Dr Jayender Verma

Manav Rachna Educational Institute of Research & Studies - Department of Commerce

Dr Arvind Dalal

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Shivani Verma

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

The transformation of the emphasis from ‘shareholder’ to ‘stakeholders’ in the area of corporate reporting has taken a new turn. The corporate sector has now to watch the interest of its ‘stakeholders’ viz. employees, consumers, shareholders, general public and the government. The traditional objective of profit maximization is no longer valid so long as the primary utility of a business house as representing and safeguarding the interests and well-being of its ‘stakeholders’ is not well taken care of. Thus, the corporate sector, all over the world, is now under great pressure from its ‘stakeholders’ to report to them, as to what extent it has been successful or otherwise in safeguarding their interests. Social reporting is a step towards this direction. In India the conceptual thinking about the corporate social reporting has grown at a faster rate than what has been done in practice. As a matter of fact social accounting has not been widely practiced in India though the need was felt by a High Powered Expert Committee on Companies and MRTP Act about 25 years ago. The committee recommended that a provision should be made in Indian Companies Act that every company along with director’s report shall also give a social report, which will indicate both in quantity and monetary terms the various activities relating to social responsibility which have been carried out by the company in previous year. There are a few large scale companies in India which have recently increased their voluntary disclosures of information about their social performance in annual reports.

Keywords: Corporate Social Reporting, Social Responsibility, Social Report

Suggested Citation:

Verma, Dr Jayender and Dalal, Dr Arvind and Verma, Shivani, Corporate Social Reporting: - Review of Indian Scenario (2020). IJRAR - International Journal of Research and Analytical Reviews (IJRAR), E-ISSN 2348-1269, P- ISSN 2349-5138, Volume.7, Issue 2, Page No pp.803-816, April 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3677239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Manishaben Jaiswal
SOFTWARE ARCHITECTURE AND SOFTWARE DESIGN
International Research Journal of Engineering and Technology , p. 2452 - 2454 Posted: 2019-11
Manishaben Jaiswal
RISK ANALYSIS IN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
International Journal of Scientific Research and Engineering Development (IJSRED) , volume 6 , p. 857 - 860 Posted: 2019-12
Manishaben Jaiswal , Mehul Patel , &quot;the Learning On Crm In Erp-With Special , To , Engineering , In Gujarat
International Journal of Management and Humanities Scopus (IJMH) , published by Blue Eyes Intelligence Engineering & Sciences Publication (BEIESP) Posted: 2020-04
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
523
RANK
622,944
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies