Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Policy Risk and Corporate Financial Decisions: Evidence from the NOx Budget Trading Program

Management Science, Forthcoming

92 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2020 Last revised: 31 Mar 2022

Viet Anh Dang

Alliance Manchester Business School

Ning Gao

Manchester Accounting and Finance Group, Alliance Manchester Business School, University of Manchester

Tiancheng Yu

Wuhan University - Economics and Management School

Date Written: January 29, 2022

Abstract

We find that manufacturing firms adopt more conservative capital structures in response to the NOx Budget Trading Program (NBP) of 2004, a regional cap-and-trade program aimed at mitigating the NOx emissions of power plants in 11 midwestern and southeastern states in the United States. Our further analysis demonstrates that, because the NBP induces an electricity price shock, it affects manufacturers’ financial decisions by raising their operating leverage and distress risk. We also find that firms respond to the NBP’s adoption heterogeneously: they adjust their financial leverage more dramatically when facing greater electricity intensity, financial distress threats, or competitive pressure. In addition, firms adapt not only capital structure but also other financial policies in response to the regulation. Overall, our study shows that climate policy risk constitutes an essential consideration in firm financial decisions. It also highlights potential unintended consequences of policy responses to climate change for the corporate sector.

Keywords: policy risk; climate change; emission mitigation/abatement; cap-and-trade programs; capital structure/leverage ratio; input costs; operating leverage

JEL Classification: G32, Q53, L60

Suggested Citation:

Dang, Viet Anh and Gao, Ning and Yu, Tiancheng, Climate Policy Risk and Corporate Financial Decisions: Evidence from the NOx Budget Trading Program (January 29, 2022). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3677004 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3677004
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
298 References
Huang
Columns (2) and (3) present the results of robustness tests using two alternative measures of distress risk: credit ratings and the CDS spread, where the data are more limited. 23 We estimate DID models of the DTD, credit ratings, and the CDS spread with firm, state, and year fixed effects, as in our study of capital structure. The choice and measures of the control variables follow previous research on the determinants of the DTD
Jiang et al. 2018), and the CDS spread Posted: 2013
Chen
Carter et al. 2021, Dou et al. 2021), we identify the three most widely used measures of operating leverage
Gamba and Saretto Posted: 1984
Kahl
The measure MROL reflects the elasticity of a firm's operating income after depreciation to its sales, KLNOL captures the sensitivity of the innovations in the growth rate of operating costs to the innovations in the growth rate of sales, and NMOL is defined as the ratio of the cost of goods sold and selling, general, and administrative expenses to total assets
which, for convenience, we label, respectively, as Posted: 2011
Shumway Bharath
this impact is calculated using the formula Implied Default Probability = N(-DTD), where N denotes the cumulative standard normal distribution function. References Abeberese AB (2017) Electricity cost and firm performance: Evidence from India
As in Vassalou and Xing , volume 99 , p. 839 - 852 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,594
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,547
RANK
26,516
298 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies