Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effectiveness of Gender Regulations on Boards of Directors: The Role of the Institutional Environment

CNMV Bulletin, Quarter I, 2020, pages 149-176

28 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2020

Irma Martínez-García

Universidad de Oviedo - Business Administration

Silvia Gómez-Ansón

Universidad de Oviedo - Business Administration

Date Written: August 20, 2020

Abstract

This article analyses the effectiveness of the different regulations promoting gender diversity on boards of directors and how formal and informal institutional factors influence the relationship between regulations and the presence of female directors on boards. It describes the gender diversity regulations implemented in Europe, and goes on to analyse, for a group of companies forming part of the STOXX Europe 600 index and for the period 2004-2018: i) how the presence of women on boards of directors has evolved in each of the countries represented in the sample; ii) the impact of Corporate Governance Codes with recommendations on gender diversity and gender quotas, with and without sanctions, on the presence of women on boards of directors and board committees, and iii) how formal and informal institutional factors, such as the quality and transparency of governance and cultural aspects, influence the effectiveness of regulations. Lastly, we look at the regulations and institutional environment in Spain. The results show the importance of formal and informal institutions as key instruments to the effectiveness of gender diversity regulations and suggest a number of factors that should be considered when designing future actions and policies in this area.

Keywords: corporate governance, women directors, quota, soft law

JEL Classification: G30, G38, M14

Suggested Citation:

Martínez-García, Irma and Gómez-Ansón, Silvia, Effectiveness of Gender Regulations on Boards of Directors: The Role of the Institutional Environment (August 20, 2020). CNMV Bulletin, Quarter I, 2020, pages 149-176, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3677804
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Unified Good Governance Code for Listed Companies Posted: 2006
Unified Good Governance Code for Listed Companies Posted: 2013
Good Governance Code for Listed Companies Posted: 2015
Crossref
CNMV submits to public consultation the amendment of certain recommendations of the Good Governance Code for Listed Companies. Press release, 15
CNMV Posted: 2019-01
Load more
1 Citations
Irma Martínez-García , Silvia Gómez-Ansón
Regulación de genero en los consejos de administración: El papel moderador del entorno institucional. (Gender Regulation in the Boards of Directors: The Moderating Role of the Institutional Framework.)
CNMV Working Paper No. 72 · 44 Pages · Posted: 19 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 79
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
894
RANK
560,264
1 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies