Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Corruption and Annual Report Readability: Evidence from the United States

Accounting and Business Research, 2020

Posted: 7 Oct 2020

Hongkang Xu

University of Massachusetts Dartmouth

Mai Dao

University of Toledo - College of Business Administration

Jia Wu

University of Massachusetts Dartmouth

Hua Sun

Shandong University

Date Written: August 19, 2020

Abstract

This study examines the association between the political corruption of a local government and the readability of firms’ annual reports. Based on a sample of 12,742 firm-year observations (for 2,369 unique firms) during the 2006-2014 period and the Gunning Fog Index as the primary measure of annual report readability, the study reveals that firms located in more corrupt regions tend to disclose less readable financial reports. Our additional analyses reveal that the level of annual report readability is lower for firms located in more corrupt regions, regardless of the firms’ level of return on assets. We also find that firms located in more corrupt regions and having more able managers are more likely to obfuscate firms’ information in annual reports than other firms. The results imply firms’ effort to minimize rent extraction from corrupt government officials. A further test shows that firms in more corrupt regions are more likely to report less readable Management Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) section of annual reports. This paper extends the prior literature on annual report readability and political corruption. The paper also provides additional evidence to the mixed results on the management’s obfuscation behavior related to the readability of financial disclosures. The findings may be of interest to regulators seeking out factors influencing firms’ readability of annual reports.

Keywords: Political Corruption, Annual Report Readability, Gunning Fog Index

Suggested Citation:

Xu, Hongkang and Dao, Mai and Wu, Jia and Sun, Hua, Political Corruption and Annual Report Readability: Evidence from the United States (August 19, 2020). Accounting and Business Research, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3677161
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
626
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies