Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Auditor Industry Specialization and Board Independence on the Cash Flow Reporting Classification Choices under IFRS

37 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2020

Shuling Chiang

Independent

Gary Kleinman

Montclair State University - School of Business

Picheng Lee

Pace University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 21, 2020

Abstract

This study explores the relationship between audit partner and firm industry specialization and board of director independence on the one hand and the decision by Taiwanese firms to take advantage of IFRS flexibility concerning reporting interest income and expense, and dividends received in the operating cash flow section of the statement of cash flows on the other. A sample of 1,227 Taiwanese firms were drawn for fiscal year 2013, the year that Taiwan switched from using its GAAP to using IFRS principles. Of these, 354 changed their cash flow reporting classifications. We examine the interaction effect of board independence and auditor industry specialization at both partner-level and firm-level on the cash flow reporting classification choices under IFRS. The results show there is a substitute relationship between board independence and partner-level industry specialization on the change in cash flow reporting classification, but a complementary relationship between board independence and firm-level auditor specialization. Further, both partner-level and firm-level auditor industry specialization have a complementary relationship with board independence in not changing a firm’s interest expense paid reported in operating activities to financing activities.

Suggested Citation:

Chiang, Shuling and Kleinman, Gary and Lee, Picheng, The Effect of Auditor Industry Specialization and Board Independence on the Cash Flow Reporting Classification Choices under IFRS (May 21, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3678379 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3678379
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
C Kretzmann , T Teuteberg , H Zülch
Comparability of reported cash flows under IFRS -Evidence from Germany
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 906 - 927 Posted: 2015
Crossref
G V Krishnan
Does Big 6 Auditor industry expertise constrain earnings management? Accounting Horizons , volume 17 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2003-03
Crossref
S Y Kwon , C Y Lim , P Tan
Legal systems and earnings quality: the role of auditor industry specialization
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 25 - 55 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Lawrence , M M Miguel , P Zhang
Can big 4 versus Non-big 4 differences in audit-quality proxies be attributed to client characteristics?
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 286 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
966
RANK
478,373
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies