Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Enhanced Creditor Rights in Bankruptcy Desirable to Shareholders? Evidence from the Cost of Equity Capital

Journal of Banking and Finance, 2025

51 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2020 Last revised: 30 Mar 2025

Xiaoran Ni

Xiamen University - School of Economics; Xiamen University - Wang Yanan Institute for Studies in Economics (WISE)

Jin Xu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

David Yin

Miami University of Ohio

Date Written: March 27, 2025

Abstract

Stronger creditor rights in bankruptcy are often viewed as adding deadweight costs and leading to inefficient liquidation. However, ex ante, they also increase firms' borrowing capacity and reduce financial constraints. This study investigates shareholders' overall attitudes toward enhanced creditor rights in bankruptcy by examining the impact of the staggered adoption of anti-recharacterization laws across U.S. states on the cost of equity capital. We find that the strengthening of creditor rights leads to a significant reduction in the cost of equity capital, with the effect being more pronounced among financially constrained firms and firms with more growth opportunities and volatile cash flows. The reduction is stronger among firms that are more likely to utilize securitized debt. Overall, our results suggest that enhanced creditor rights in bankruptcy improve shareholder value through increased borrowing capacity.

Keywords: Cost of Equity Capital, Creditor Protection, Anti-recharacterization Law, Repossession, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Ni, Xiaoran and Xu, Jin and Yin, David, Are Enhanced Creditor Rights in Bankruptcy Desirable to Shareholders? Evidence from the Cost of Equity Capital (March 27, 2025). Journal of Banking and Finance, 2025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3678059 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3678059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
V V Acharya , Y Amihud , L Litov
Creditor rights and corporate risk-taking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 150 - 166 Posted: 2011
V Acharya , I Drechsler , P Schnabl
A pyrrhic victory? Bank bailouts and sovereign credit risk[J]
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 6 , p. 2689 - 2739 Posted: 2014
V V Acharya , K V Subramanian
Bankruptcy codes and innovation
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 12 , p. 4949 - 4988 Posted: 2009
S Ahn , W Choi
The role of bank monitoring in corporate governance: Evidence from borrowers' earnings management behavior[J]
Journal of banking & finance , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 434 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,497
RANK
225,902
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies