Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are CEOs’ Purchases More Profitable Than They Appear?

58 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2020

Chris Armstrong

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Terrence Blackburne

Oregon State University

Phillip J. Quinn

University of Washington Foster School of Business

Date Written: August 18, 2020

Abstract

Little is known about why CEOs voluntarily purchase shares of their firm other than because they expect to directly profit from doing so. However, since CEOs are risk-averse, highly un-diversified, and face litigation costs from trading on favorable private information, direct profits are unlikely to be the sole motive — especially considering that many of their purchases are ultimately unprofitable. We conjecture and find evidence that CEOs who have recently purchased shares are less likely to be terminated following poor performance and that this relation varies predictably depending on (i) the board’s access to alternative sources of information about the CEO, (ii) the CEOs’ expected cost of the purchase, and (iii) whether the CEO is already bonded via unrestricted shareholdings. Collectively, our results provide evidence that some CEOs voluntarily purchase shares despite the relatively high (opportunity) cost of foregone diversification — and, in some cases, outright un-profitability — of doing so to indirectly benefit by prolonging their tenure. Our estimates imply that the average direct (i.e., monetary) abnormal returns earned by CEOs’ purchases increase from 3% to 58% after accounting for the indirect benefit of prolonged tenure.

Keywords: Insider Trading, Private Information, CEO Turnover, Incentive Contracting, Signalling

JEL Classification: A00, A10, C73, C78, D01, D02, D61, D81, D86, G30, L21, M41, M51, M52, M55

Suggested Citation:

Armstrong, Chris S. and Blackburne, Terrence and Quinn, Phillip J., Are CEOs’ Purchases More Profitable Than They Appear? (August 18, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3678297 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3678297
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
U V Lilienfeld-Toal , S Ruenzi
CEO ownership, stock market performance, and managerial discretion
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 1013 - 1050 Posted: 2014
Crossref
H Louis , H White
Do managers intentionally use repurchase tender offers to signal private information? Evidence from firm financial reporting behavior
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 205 - 233 Posted: 2007
Crossref
U Malmendier , Tate , G
CEO overconfidence and corporate investment
Journal of Finance , volume 60 , p. 2661 - 2700 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Neyman , E L Scott
Consistent estimates based on partially consistent observations
Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 1948
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,790
RANK
286,433
13 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies