Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Policy Uncertainty and Board Monitoring: Evidence from CEO Turnovers

Journal of Financial Research

44 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2020

Melissa B. Frye

University of Central Florida - College of Business Administration

Duong Pham

Georgia Southern University - Department of Finance and Economics

Date Written: May 14, 2020

Abstract

We examine whether economic policy uncertainty (EPU) affects a board’s chief executive officer (CEO) replacement decision. We find that high EPU reduces the likelihood of forced CEO turnover. Our results support the idea that performance assessment may be more difficult when uncertainty is high. We provide evidence that succession planning may be important to firms in reducing the effects of EPU, as firms with an identifiable heir apparent are not influenced by high EPU. Likewise, voluntary CEO turnovers are not affected by EPU. Overall, our results provide evidence that boards make personnel decisions in response to external macroeconomic pressures.

Keywords: Economic Policy Uncertainty, CEO Turnover

JEL Classification: G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Frye, Melissa and Pham, Duong, Economic Policy Uncertainty and Board Monitoring: Evidence from CEO Turnovers (May 14, 2020). Journal of Financial Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3678649 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3678649
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 152 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Allgood , K A Farrell
The effect of CEO tenure on the relation between firm performance and turnover
Journal of Financial Research , volume 23 , p. 373 - 90 Posted: 2014
Crossref
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis ; Brogaard , J , A Detzel
The asset-pricing implications of government economic policy uncertainty
Management Science , volume 61 , p. 3 - 18 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
763
RANK
702,914
5 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies