Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Corporate Governance, Dividend Policy and Informativeness of Risk Disclosure on the Firm Value: Egyptian Evidence

Afro-Asian Journal of Finance and Accounting (Forthcoming)

Posted: 9 Nov 2020

Tariq Hassaneen Ismail

Faculty of Commerce

Mohamed Samy Eldeeb

MSA University

Date Written: August 25, 2020

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to investigate the effect of corporate governance, dividend policy and the risk disclosure level on firm value and in turn, explore the main drivers of implementing corporate governance mechanisms, declaring dividend and risk disclosure within the annual reports of the Egyptian listed companies. A risk disclosure index was constructed to measure the level of the risk disclosure. Structure equation modelling has been employed to test the hypotheses using a sample of the most active 30 companies that are listed on the Egyptian Stock Exchange Market (EGX30). The findings suggest that (i) the board independence and board size have insignificant effect on the firm value, while CEO duality shows a significant positive impact on the firm value, and (ii) risk disclosure level allows investors to better predict future earnings growth. Furthermore, dividend policy and risk disclosure informativeness affect significantly the firm’s ability to raise money and its value in a positive direction. Hence, this contributes to the literature of emerging markets by providing evidence in Egypt that may highlight the magnitude of corporate governance mechanisms, risk disclosure informativeness and dividend policy and their impact on the firm value.

Keywords: corporate governance; dividend policy; risk disclosure level; firm value; EGX30; Egypt

Suggested Citation:

Ismail, Tariq Hassaneen and Eldeeb, Mohamed Samy, The Effect of Corporate Governance, Dividend Policy and Informativeness of Risk Disclosure on the Firm Value: Egyptian Evidence (August 25, 2020). Afro-Asian Journal of Finance and Accounting (Forthcoming) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3680421
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
735
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies