Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Emotions Affect Audit Practice? Terrorist Attacks and Accounting Misstatements

56 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2020

Pengkai Lin

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: August 28, 2020

Abstract

Psychology and neuroscience research shows that individuals with negative emotions (e.g., fear) are more sensitive to negative signals and exhibit a higher degree of risk aversion. Using local terrorist attacks as exogenous shocks that cause auditors to experience more negative emotions in the audit period, I empirically study the impact of negative emotions on audit practice. I find that accounting misstatements are less likely to occur for firms when there is a local terrorist attack in the audit period. The reduction in misstatements is stronger for auditors who are located closer to the terrorist attacks. Further evidence suggests that affected auditors are more likely to issue going concern opinions, spend more time on the audit, and charge higher audit fees. I obtain a similar set of results using airplane crashes as an alternative source of emotional shocks. Overall, the evidence is consistent with the idea that auditors with more negative emotions exert greater effort to lower misstatement risks. My findings provide large-scale archival causal evidence that emotions can affect audit outcomes.

Keywords: Accounting Misstatement, Going Concern, Audit Fee, Emotion, Terrorist Attack

JEL Classification: D80; M41

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Pengkai, Do Emotions Affect Audit Practice? Terrorist Attacks and Accounting Misstatements (August 28, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3682870 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3682870
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit
AICPA Posted: 2007
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 Posted: 1968
Crossref
T Anzur
How to talk to the media: Televised coverage of public health issues in a disaster
Prehospital and Disaster Medicine , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 196 - 204 Posted: 2000
Crossref
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Ameneh Bazrafshan , Naser Makarem , Reza Hesarzadeh , Wafaa SalmanAbbood
Managerial ability, earnings quality and ISIS: evidence from Iraq
International Journal of Emerging Markets Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
514
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,439
RANK
125,376
1 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies