Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $6.25
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Calabash Community Hospital

Darden Case No. UVA-F-1946

6 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2020 Last revised: 4 Mar 2022

Michael J. Schill

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Abstract

This case considers a $10 million investment in an outpatient surgery center by a not-for-profit community hospital in rural South Carolina. A member of the purchasing department, R. D. Scott, is invited to complete a discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis of the investment opportunity to help quantify the financial costs and benefits of the project in this not-for profit context. The analysis maintains substantial uncertainty regarding a number of key parameters.

Excerpt

UVA-F-1946

Rev. Feb. 17, 2022

Calabash Community Hospital

As R. D. Scott left work on a Friday in early December 2019, it seemed like a perfect evening in Calabash, South Carolina. The temperature was 70 degrees, the smell of Lizard's Thicket fried chicken was wafting in the air, and Scott was on his way to cheer on his alma mater's Clemson Tigers as they took on the Virginia Cavaliers for a football conference championship. But then as he viewed the grassy field just beyond the parking lot—the site for a potential new facility—Scott was reminded of the drama of that morning's meeting.

The Meeting

Scott worked in the purchasing department for Calabash Community Hospital (CCH). He had been there long enough to know the hospitals' suppliers backward and forward. Business at the hospital had long been stable and profitable—a true cash cow. While work life was stable and comfortable at CCH, a growing group at the hospital was concerned about the relaxed nature of CCH management. They saw substantive changes in care at other hospitals in the region, including significant investments pouring into new facilities. The group anticipated a bleak future for CCH if the administrative team wasn't more aggressive. Emily Tang, chief financial officer for the hospital, was not among those advocating for change, but nonetheless, she had responded by organizing a team of administrators, doctors, and nurses to lead an effort to gather data on the feasibility of starting up an ambulatory (outpatient) surgical center (ASC) at CCH. Scott was a member of the team.

. . .

Keywords: discounted cash flow, DCF, investment analysis, capital investment, incremental analysis, cash flow, scenario analysis, estimation uncertainty, nonprofit, not-for-profit, health care, hospital, DCF model, net present value, NPV

Suggested Citation:

Schill, Michael J., Calabash Community Hospital. Darden Case No. UVA-F-1946, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3682602
Purchase - $6.25
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
377
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,485
RANK
180,190
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Darden Case Collection

Follow

Finance Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies