Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Factors Influencing Earnings Management and Implications for the Cost of Equity Capital

International Journal of Innovation, Creativity and Change, www.ijicc.net, Volume 13, Issue 8, 2020

19 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2020

Endri Endri

Universitas Mercu Buana

Date Written: August 31, 2020

Abstract

This study aims to analyse the CGPI, audit committee, and company size on earnings management and their implications for the cost of equity capital. The research method used is panel data regression analysis, with a purposive sampling method obtained a sample of eight companies that consistently followed the Corporate Governance Perception Index (CGPI) program respectively from 2012-2016 and listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange. The results of the research showed that in the first model partially CGPI, and the audit committee did not affect earnings management. In contrast, the size of the firm had a significant positive effect on earnings management. Furthermore, in the second model, CGPI and earnings management partially had a significant positive effect on the cost of equity capital. The audit committee did not affect the cost of equity capital, and the size of the company had a significant negative effect on the cost of equity capital. Earnings management is still quite high, and the existence of CGPI and audit committees is still less effective to oversee the actions of the earnings management. Therefore, investors need to anticipate the accrual information which is presented in financial statements because of the higher the accrual level, then the higher the cost of equity capital.

Keywords: CGPI, Audit Committee, Firm Size, Earning Management, Cost of Equity Capital

Suggested Citation:

Endri, Endri, The Factors Influencing Earnings Management and Implications for the Cost of Equity Capital (August 31, 2020). International Journal of Innovation, Creativity and Change, www.ijicc.net, Volume 13, Issue 8, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3683885
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
L Abbott , S Parker , G Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S Alves
The impact of audit committee existence and external audit on earnings management: Evidence from Portugal
Journal of Financial Reporting & Accounting , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 143 - 165 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
P Asih
Faktor-Faktor Yang Mempengaruhi Praktik Manajemen Laba (Studi Kasus: Perusahaan Manufaktur yang terdaftar di BEI)
TEKUN Journal , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 191 - 201 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
352
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,252
RANK
194,508
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies