Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Taxation and the Ownership Structure of Private Firms

Journal of Corporate Finance, forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2020 Last revised: 6 Feb 2023

Lisa Hillmann

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: January 27, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of dividend taxation on the ownership structure of private firms. I exploit a German dividend tax increase that only affects corporate shareholders owning a minority stake. Using data on private German firms and their shareholders, I find that corporate shareholders reduce their minority stakes in firms after the dividend tax reform. This result is in line with the notion that, because minority shareholders do not have sufficient decision-making power to influence the payout policy, they can only react to a dividend tax increase by selling their shares. This effect is larger when the affected minority shareholders face high dividend tax costs. However, I find a smaller effect when the benefits of the minority stakes are highly relevant for the firm and the affected shareholders, suggesting that non-tax factors mute the response to dividend taxes. In addition, I find that the largest shareholder of the firm buys the minority stake, resulting in greater ownership concentration. These findings extend the prior literature that finds no effect of dividend taxes on the ownership structure of private firms.

Keywords: dividend taxation, closely held corporations, private firms, minority shareholders, corporate shareholders

JEL Classification: G32, G35, H25

Suggested Citation:

Hillmann, Lisa, Dividend Taxation and the Ownership Structure of Private Firms (January 27, 2023). Journal of Corporate Finance, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3683813 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3683813
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
The "Wall Street Walk" and Shareholder Activism: Exit as a Form of Voice, Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
F Allen , A E Bernardo , I Welch
A Theory of Dividends Based on Tax Clienteles
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2499 - 2536 Posted: 2000
J W Allen , G M Phillips
Corporate Equity Ownership, Strategic Alliances, and Product Market Relationships
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2791 - 2815 Posted: 2000
M Alzahrani , M Lasfer
Investor protection, taxation, and dividends
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 745 - 762 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,042
RANK
357,435
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies