Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Uneven Regulation and Economic Reallocation: Evidence from Transparency Regulation

LawFin Working Paper No. 43

86 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2020 Last revised: 17 Nov 2022

Matthias Breuer

Goethe University Frankfurt

Patricia Breuer

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 2022

Abstract

We investigate the impact of uneven transparency regulation across countries and industries on the location of economic activity. Using two distinct sources of regulatory variation—the varying extent of financial-reporting requirements and the staggered introduction of electronic business registers in Europe—, we consistently document that direct exposure to transparency regulation is negatively associated with the focal industry’s economic activity in terms of inputs (e.g., employment) and outputs (e.g., production). By contrast, we find that indirect exposure to supplier and customer industries’ transparency regulation is positively associated with the focal industry’s economic activity. Our evidence suggests uneven transparency regulation can reallocate economic activity from regulated toward unregulated countries and industries, distorting the location of economic activity.

Keywords: Regulation, Reallocation, Transparency, Disclosure, Supply Chain

JEL Classification: K22, L51, M21, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Breuer, Matthias and Breuer, Patricia, Uneven Regulation and Economic Reallocation: Evidence from Transparency Regulation (November 2022). LawFin Working Paper No. 43, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3683033 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3683033
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing Firms to Talk: Financial Disclosure Regulation and Externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
G A Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
B Badertscher , N Shroff , H D White
Externalities of public firm presence: Evidence from private firms' investment decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
S P Baginski , L A Hinson
Cost of Capital Free-Riders
Accounting Review , volume 91 , p. 1291 - 1313 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
907
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,905
RANK
35,954
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies