Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Talk When a Machine is Listening: Corporate Disclosure in the Age of AI

Review of Financial Studies, Forthcoming

84 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2020 Last revised: 22 Mar 2023

Sean Cao

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Wei Jiang

Emory University Goizueta Business School; ECGI; NBER

Baozhong Yang

Georgia State University - J. Mack Robinson College of Business

Alan L. Zhang

Iowa State University - College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 12, 2023

Abstract

Growing AI readership (proxied for by machine downloads and ownership by AI-equipped investors) motivates firms to prepare filings friendlier to machine processing and to mitigate linguistic tones that are unfavorably perceived by algorithms. Loughran and McDonald (2011) and BERT available since 2018 serve as event studies supporting attribution of the decrease in the measured negative sentiment to increased machine readership. This relationship is stronger among firms with higher benefits to (e.g., external financing needs) or lower cost (e.g., litigation risk) of sentiment management. This is the first study exploring the feedback effect on corporate disclosure in response to technology.

Keywords: Machine Learning, AI, Corporate Disclosure, Textual Analysis, Speech Analysis, Feedback Effect

JEL Classification: D83, G14, G30

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Sean S. and Jiang, Wei and Yang, Baozhong and Zhang, Alan L., How to Talk When a Machine is Listening: Corporate Disclosure in the Age of AI (January 12, 2023). Review of Financial Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3683802 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3683802
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
S Abis , L Veldkamp
The changing economics of knowledge production Posted: 2022
R Adusumilli
NLP in the stock market. Medium Posted: 2020-02-01
K R Ahern , D Sosyura
Who writes the news? Corporate press releases during merger negotiations
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , p. 241 - 291 Posted: 2014
K D Allee , M D Deangelis , J R Moon
Disclosure "scriptability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , p. 363 - 430 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,488
ABSTRACT VIEWS
16,752
RANK
4,746
28 Citations
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies