Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the SEC's 2010 Enforcement Cooperation Program

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2020

Andrew J. Leone

Northwestern University

Edward Xuejun Li

City University of New York (CUNY) - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

Michelle Liu‐Watts

CUNY Hunter College

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 13, 2020

Abstract

This study examines changes in SEC enforcement and firm cooperation after the SEC introduced its new cooperation program in 2010. While previous research shows that the SEC penalized cooperative firms prior to 2010, our results suggest that after that year, it rewarded cooperation, especially good faith actions. We also find that after 2010, the SEC increased mentions of cooperation in public speeches and publicized more details about firm cooperative activities in AAERs. Finally, we find some evidence that misconduct firms increased good faith cooperation after the SEC revised its cooperation program in 2010. Our findings suggest that having a more explicit leniency program improves its effectiveness.

Keywords: SEC enforcement, Cooperation, Leniency, Prosecutorial discretion, Restatement

JEL Classification: G18, G38, K42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Leone, Andrew J. and Li, Edward Xuejun and Liu‐Watts, Michelle, On the SEC's 2010 Enforcement Cooperation Program (August 13, 2020). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3684075
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
T Eisenberg , T Eisenberg , M Wells , M Zhang
Addressing the Zeros Problem: Regression Models for Outcomes with a Large Proportion of Zeros, with an Application to Trial Outcomes
Journal of Empirical Legal Studies , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 161 - 186 Posted: 2015
Crossref
L P Ellsworth
SEC Cooperation Game Changer or the Same Old Game? Client Advisory Posted: 2010-01-20
E Feroz , K Park , V Pastena
The Financial and Market Effects of the SEC's Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 107 - 142 Posted: 1991
Crossref
R Files
SEC Enforcement: Does Forthright Disclosure and Cooperation Really Matter?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 353 - 374 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,109
RANK
145,263
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies