Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Making Sense of Risk Management as a (Dis)comfort-Inducing Practice

Gendron, Y., Samsonova-Taddei, A, and Guénin, H., Making sense of risk management as a (dis)comfort-inducing practice. Behavioral Research in Accounting, (Forthcoming).

50 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2020

Yves Gendron

Université Laval

Anna Samsonova-Taddei

The University of Manchester

Henri Guénin

Université Laval - Faculté d'Administration

Date Written: August 14, 2020

Abstract

This study aims to enhance our understanding of the practice of risk management, and specifically how corporate boards fulfill their responsibilities regarding risk oversight. We draw on a theoretical perspective centered on (dis)comfort and 25 interviews with corporate board members and risk management consultants in Canada to present a view of risk management as a set of activities characterized by tension between actions that engender the feeling of discomfort, and a quest for comfort and reassurance. Our findings provide insights that show how, alongside the functionalist underpinnings, comfort-seeking represents a pervasive imperative that profoundly shapes risk management in action.

Keywords: risk management, boards of directors, consultants, corporate governance, comfort

JEL Classification: M41, M10

Suggested Citation:

Gendron, Yves and Samsonova-Taddei, Anna and Guénin, Henri, Making Sense of Risk Management as a (Dis)comfort-Inducing Practice (August 14, 2020). Gendron, Y., Samsonova-Taddei, A, and Guénin, H., Making sense of risk management as a (dis)comfort-inducing practice. Behavioral Research in Accounting, (Forthcoming)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3684959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
A D Abbott
The System of Professions Posted: 1988
M Alvesson , J Sandberg
Habitat and habitus: Boxed-in versus box-breaking research
Organization Studies , volume 35 , issue 7 , p. 967 - 987 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Arena , M Arnaboldi , G Azzone
The organizational dynamics of Enterprise Risk Management. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 35 , issue 7 , p. 659 - 675 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Arena , M Arnaboldi , T Palermo
The dynamics of (dis)integrated risk management: A comparative field study. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 62 , p. 65 - 81 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
805
RANK
355,741
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies