Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory transparency and the alignment of private and public enforcement: Evidence from the public disclosure of SEC comment letters

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming

66 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2020 Last revised: 20 Jul 2021

Amy P. Hutton

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Susan Shu

Boston College

Xin Zheng

University of British Columbia, Sauder School of Business, Students

Date Written: June 17, 2021

Abstract

Does enhanced regulatory transparency facilitate alignment of private and public enforcement? Utilizing the SEC’s 2004 decision to disclose its comment letters publicly, we explore the actions of the SEC and shareholder litigants. We find the two parties converge more on enforcement targets after the public disclosure. The increased alignment is attributable to public scrutiny of SEC oversight enhancing regulator incentives and reducing regulatory capture, and to shareholder plaintiffs gaining information previously accessible only by regulators, enabling litigants to identify cases with “merit.” These findings suggest regulatory transparency enhances the complementarity of public and private enforcement, potentially improving enforcement outcomes.

Keywords: Regulation, SEC, securities litigation, class action lawsuit, regulatory transparency

JEL Classification: G18, G38, K41, K42, L51, M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hutton, Amy P. and Shu, Susan and Zheng, Xin, Regulatory transparency and the alignment of private and public enforcement: Evidence from the public disclosure of SEC comment letters (June 17, 2021). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3684840 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3684840
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
367
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,479
RANK
185,725
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies