Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
MiFID II and the Unbundling of Analyst Research from Trading Execution

50 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2020 Last revised: 18 Oct 2022

Ben Lourie

University of California, Irvine

Devin M. Shanthikumar

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

Il Sun Yoo

University of Hawaii at Manoa - Shidler College of Business

Date Written: July 8, 2022

Abstract

The revised Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, known as MiFID II, requires the unbundling of research payments from trading execution. Using a difference-in-differences research design, we examine whether this regulation impacted the research–trading relation. We find that MiFID II weakened the link between the brokerage share of trading and analyst research. Forecast frequency, optimism, and accuracy are less likely to be associated with the brokerage trading share after MiFID II. These results do not subside in the years following the implementation of the regulation. Analysts appear to respond to these changes. Following MiFID II, analysts in Europe are less likely than analysts in the US to continue high forecast frequency, optimism, and accuracy for stocks with high share importance for the analyst’s brokerage house. We find similar results throughout for recommendations. Overall, our evidence suggests that MiFID II is at least partially successful in unbundling research from execution.

Keywords: MiFID II, Regulation, Sell-Side Analysts, Brokerage Houses, Trading Volume, Commissions, Conflicts of Interest, Incentives, Earnings Forecasts

JEL Classification: G24, D82, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Lourie, Ben and Shanthikumar, Devin M. and Yoo, Il Sun, MiFID II and the Unbundling of Analyst Research from Trading Execution (July 8, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3684134 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3684134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Broker votes system: A strategic product for investment research firms
Acuity Knowledge Partners Posted: 2019
A Amzallag , C Guagliano , V L Passo
MiFID II research unbundling: Assessing the impact on SMEs. Working paper, European Securities and Markets Authority Posted: 2021
A Beyer , D Cohen , T Lys , B Walther
The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
A Beyer , I Guttman
The effect of trading volume on analysts' forecast bias
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 2 , p. 451 - 481 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
330
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,018
RANK
208,776
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies