Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Supply Chain Bargaining Power and Cost Stickiness

47 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2020 Last revised: 15 Mar 2021

Binghao (Jimmy) Zhao

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 15, 2021

Abstract

Given the essential role of supply chains in the economy, furthering our understanding of the interactions between trade partners is important. In this paper, I study the relation between cost stickiness and bargaining power over supply chain partners. I document evidence consistent with the argument that firms wield supply chain bargaining power to avoid cost stickiness by shifting high adjustment costs onto their trade partners. In particular, I show that the level of SG&A and COGS stickiness is negatively associated with firms’ bargaining power over their suppliers and customers. My results are robust to using industry competition as an alternative measure of supply chain bargaining power, therefore alleviating concerns about reverse causality. Moreover, my results are robust to lead-and-lag tests, alternative measures of supply chain bargaining power, inclusion of firm fixed effects, and among subsamples examined in prior studies. Overall, my study offers insights into whether and how supply chain relations influence firms’ resource adjustment costs.

Keywords: Bargaining power, supply chain, resource adjustment costs, cost stickiness

JEL Classification: D22, D24, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Zhao, Binghao (Jimmy), Supply Chain Bargaining Power and Cost Stickiness (March 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3685994 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3685994
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
365
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,667
RANK
186,854
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies