Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Message from the Editor

Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, Vol. 32, Issue 3, pp. 2-3, 2020

4 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2023

Don Chew

Journal of Applied Corporate Finance

Date Written: Summer 2020

Abstract

In the introduction to the Summer 2020 issue of the Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, editor Don Chew pays tribute to Michael C. Jensen, Harvard Business School professor emeritus and co-founder of SSRN. This issue of the JACF focuses on the subject of "Private Equity and Public Companies" and is devoted in large part to exploring the extent to which Jensen’s predictions have panned out. In what is clear testimony to the power of Jensen’s thinking, the growth and global expansion of private equity during the past 30 years have been extraordinary. In addition to the resources provided by SSRN to many academic beneficiaries, Jensen is best known among his finance colleagues as the heir to Adolf Berle in formulating the theory of "agency costs" and as the intellectual father of leveraged buyouts and private equity.

Suggested Citation:

Chew, Donald, A Message from the Editor (Summer 2020). Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, Vol. 32, Issue 3, pp. 2-3, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3685960 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/jacf.12413
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,110
RANK
672,649
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies