Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Prosocial CEOs, Corporate Policies, and Firm Value

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2023-167

67 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2020 Last revised: 16 Mar 2023

Mei Feng

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Weili Ge

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Zhejia Ling

California State University, Fullerton

Wei Ting Loh

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 2, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines how chief executive officers’ (CEOs’) prosocial tendency influences corporate policies and firm value. We use individuals’ involvement with charitable organizations as a proxy for prosocial tendency. We find that, compared to firms with non-prosocial CEOs, firms with prosocial CEOs have lower executive subordinate turnover, implement more employee-friendly policies, experience higher customer satisfaction, and engage in more socially responsible activities. We also find that firms with prosocial CEOs have higher value and lower risk, partly due to the corporate policies adopted by prosocial CEOs. These results are corroborated when we compare changes in corporate policies and firm value around different types of CEO turnovers: a prosocial CEO replacing a non-prosocial CEO versus other types. Our results thus suggest that prosocial CEOs are more likely to make corporate decisions that benefit others and increase firm value.

Keywords: Prosocial tendency; Corporate policies; Employee turnover; Customer satisfaction; Corporate social responsibility; Firm value.

JEL Classification: D64, G40, G41, M14

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Mei and Ge, Weili and Ling, Zhejia and Loh, Wei Ting, Prosocial CEOs, Corporate Policies, and Firm Value (January 2, 2023). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2023-167, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3685522 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3685522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
J M Abowd , F Kramarz , D N Margolis
High wage workers and high wage firms
Econometrica , volume 67 , issue 2 , p. 251 - 333 Posted: 1999
B Agle , R Mitchell , J Sonnenfeld
Who matters to CEOs? An investigation of stakeholder attributes and salience, corporate performance, and CEO values
Academy of Management Journal , volume 42 , issue 5 , p. 507 - 525 Posted: 1999
G Akerlof
A theory of social custom, of which unemployment may be one consequence
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 94 , issue 4 , p. 749 - 775 Posted: 1980
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
703
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,215
RANK
84,191
5 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies