Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Opening up the ‘Black Box’ of Audit Firms: The Effects of Audit Partner Ownership on Audit Adjustments

51 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2020

Clive S. Lennox

University of Southern California

Chunfei Wang

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE)

Xi Wu

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 3, 2020

Abstract

Audit firms need to provide high quality audits but they also need to please their clients. We argue that these conflicting incentives become manifest when comparing the incentive effects of equity ownership on engagement quality (EQ) reviewers and audit engagement partners. We predict that EQ reviewers monitor audit quality more closely when they hold greater ownership. In contrast, we expect that equity ownership has conflicting effects on the incentives of engagement partners because they need to please their clients as well as provide high quality audits. Consistent with these predictions, we find that the associations between audit adjustments and partner equity ownership are: 1) significantly positive for EQ reviewers, 2) significantly negative or insignificant for audit engagement partners, and 3) significantly more positive for EQ reviewers than engagement partners. Our findings suggest that larger ownership stakes motivate EQ reviewers to monitor audit quality more closely, whereas larger ownership stakes do not motivate engagement partners to deliver higher quality audits.

Keywords: Audit partners; Equity ownership; Engagement quality reviews; Audit adjustments

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M52

Suggested Citation:

Lennox, Clive and Wang, Chunfei and Wu, Xi, Opening up the ‘Black Box’ of Audit Firms: The Effects of Audit Partner Ownership on Audit Adjustments (September 3, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3685579 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3685579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
A A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, information costs, and economic organization
American Economic Review , volume 62 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
Crossref
B V Balachandran , T S And R , Ramakrishnan
A theory of audit partnerships: Audit firm size and fees
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , p. 111 - 126 Posted: 1987
Crossref
G ; And C Burrows , Black
Profit sharing in Australian Big 6 accounting firms: An exploratory study
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 23 , p. 517 - 530 Posted: 1998
Crossref
F ; S Chen , Peng; S , Xue; Z , Yang; And F , Ye
Do audit clients successfully engage in opinion shopping? Partner-level evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , p. 79 - 112 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,263
RANK
91,487
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies