Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of Corporate Governance Index using Asean Balanced Score Card and Firm Performance

Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol.11, No.6, 2020

12 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2020 Last revised: 8 Dec 2021

Binh Dao

Hanoi University - Faculty of Management and Tourism

Date Written: September 4, 2020

Abstract

Governance plays a crucial role in most activities of socio-economic life. For any organizations, units, businesses or higher, a country, a community, the role of governance becomes more important than ever. For businesses, with globalization taking place and market becoming more competitive than ever, good Corporate Governance is now considered as a factor of success. Good corporate governance will help the company improve its ability to access to various sources of capital and operate more efficiently. However, in Vietnam particularly, Corporate Governance system still need to enhance and improve. Therefore, with the aim of surveying the current situation of Corporate Governance practices in Vietnam and giving the analysis of its impacts on businesses’ performance, this research is conducted from a sample of 60 listed-companies in both Construction and Food & Beverage industry for the time 2015, 2017 and 2018. By using the tool of ASEAN balanced scorecard to evaluate Vietnam Corporate Governance practices on 05 aspects: Rights of shareholders, Equitable treatment of shareholders, Roles of stakeholders, Disclosure and transparency and Board duties and responsibilities, the paper came to the low results of companies’ Corporate Governance practices in Vietnam. Based on this method, different relationships were found, one of which is the positive relationship between Corporate Governance Index and Tobin’s Q.

Keywords: Asean Score Card, Corporate Governance Index, Performance

Suggested Citation:

Dao, Thi Thanh Binh, Analysis of Corporate Governance Index using Asean Balanced Score Card and Firm Performance (September 4, 2020). Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol.11, No.6, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3686335
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
K Anjala , S Shikha
Analysis of Board Size and Firm Performance: Evidence from NSE Companies Using Panel Data Approach
Indian Journal of Corporate Governance , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 148 - 172 Posted: 2016
Akshita , B Shernaz
Relationship between Corporate Governance Index and Firm Performance: Indian Evidence
Global Business Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 675 - 689 Posted: 2018
ASEAN Corporate Governance Scorecard
ASEAN corporate governance scorecard country report and assessment Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
586
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,678
RANK
106,324
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies