Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Tale of Two "Skewness": Managerial Epidemic Experience, Probability Weighting, and Stock Price Crash Risk

Social Sciences in China, 2024

22 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2020 Last revised: 19 Feb 2025

Leilei Gu

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - Business School

Xiaoran Ni

Xiamen University - School of Economics; Xiamen University - Wang Yanan Institute for Studies in Economics (WISE)

Yuchao Peng

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Finance

Date Written: February 01, 2024

Abstract

Under probability weighting, entrepreneurs with skewness preference tend to seek right-skewed and avoid left-skewed risks. We show that Chinese firms managed by CEOs with professional epidemic experience, i.e., who previously experienced the outbreak of SARS during their tenure as high executives, have lower stock price crash risk measured by the negative skewness of stock prices in subsequent periods. In particular, those firms intentionally avoid stock price crashes by adopting more conservative strategies in decision making. Overall, we provide the first evidence on the unintended effect of entrepreneurs' subjective judgments of the probabilities of disease outbreaks on financial market stability, which have long-term implications on the financial system.

Keywords: Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), Epidemic Experience, Probability Weighting, Skewness Preference, Stock Price Crash Risk

JEL Classification: G30; G34; G38

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Leilei and Ni, Xiaoran and Peng, Yuchao, A Tale of Two "Skewness": Managerial Epidemic Experience, Probability Weighting, and Stock Price Crash Risk (February 01, 2024). Social Sciences in China, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3687536 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3687536
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
F Akbas , E Genc
Do mutual fund investors overweight the probability of extreme payoffs in the return distribution?[J]
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 223 - 261 Posted: 2020
Al Mamun , M Balachandran , B Duong , H N
Powerful CEOs and stock price crash risk[J]
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 62 Posted: 2020
D Almond
Is the 1918 influenza pandemic over? Long-term effects of in utero influenza exposure in the post-1940 U.S. population
Journal of Political Economy , volume 114 , issue 4 , p. 672 - 712 Posted: 2006
S Andersen , H Tobin , M N Kasper
Once bitten, twice shy: The power of personal experiences in risk taking [J]
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 132 , issue 3 , p. 97 - 117 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,720
RANK
285,293
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies