Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organizational Identity, Incentive Schemes, and Performance in a Corporate Hierarchy: Theory and Evidence

44 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2020 Last revised: 25 Jan 2022

Toshiaki Wakabayashi

Sophia University - Faculty of Economics

Makoto Kuroki

Yokohama City University

Date Written: January 13, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates whether the relationship between managers’ organizational identity (OI) and their performance is related to their position in a corporate hierarchy. We assume that managers are sometimes promoted to positions beyond their ability, consistent with the Peter Principle. Adopting economic identity theory, we provide a proposition that when managers are promoted beyond their ability, the expected utility for the firm is not high even if they have high levels of OI, because their effort-standards and incentive schemes are not optimal for their positions. We use this proposition to test a biased promotion hypothesis using data regarding sales managers from a Japanese listed firm. The results show that the relationship between OI and performance is positive in lower-level managers but unclear in higher-level managers. This suggests that promotion schemes are partially incentive driven, and firms should instead consider OI to optimize their job levels, standards, and incentive schemes.

Keywords: Organizational identity; incentive scheme; promotion; performance evaluation; corporate hierarchy

JEL Classification: J33, M12, M21, M46

Suggested Citation:

Wakabayashi, Toshiaki and Kuroki, Makoto, Organizational Identity, Incentive Schemes, and Performance in a Corporate Hierarchy: Theory and Evidence (January 13, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3687868 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3687868
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , P Kroos
Organization identity and earnings manipulation
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 58 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2017
M A Abernethy , C Hofmann , L Van Lent , J Bouwens
Altruism, Social Norms, and Incentive Contract Design
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2021
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Economics and identity
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 115 , issue 3 , p. 715 - 753 Posted: 2000
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Identity and the economics of organizations
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 9 - 32 Posted: 2005
Load more
1 Citations
Toshiaki Wakabayashi
A theory of management control packages and organizational identity
Journal of Management Control , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 463 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,041
RANK
416,013
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies