Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Executives Narcissism: A Review and Research Agenda Using Content Analysis

Humanities & Social Sciences Reviews, Vol 8, No 4, 2020, pp 822-839

18 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2020

A.A Gde Satia Utama

Airlangga University - Faculty of Economics and Business

Noorlailie Soewarno

Airlangga University - Faculty of Economics and Business

Dian Agustia

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

Purpose of the study: This study aims to provide a conceptual framework and construction of executive narcissism (CEO) through content analysis of 52 reputable international journals of Scopus indexed (Q1). The aims also to explore valuable content and themes related to narcissistic accounting and reveal further research opportunities for important themes generated.

Methodology: The articles were analyzed using the search method and remote text in the Airlangga library database. The study was conducted for a month among articles in Scopus Journal indexed in Q1 with "Accounting" and "Narcissism" as the keyword restriction. The study was conducted with a Word Frequency analysis using NVivo 12 plus to determine the coding and the central theme.

Main Findings: A comparison coding was performed to prove the upper echelon theory as the leading theory used in the 52 articles analyzed. Information relating to the year the article was published, article title, author's name, and journal publication successfully collected. From 52 articles analyzed in the framework of narcissistic accounting, 24 codes were successfully revealed and subsequently categorized into several themes (keywords) for further research.

Applications of this study: A literature review of 52 articles is closely related to ethical concepts and CEO decisions in choosing accounting choices (policies).

Novelty/Originality of this study: New themes successfully revealed through content analysis.

Keywords: Accounting, Executives Narcissism, Literature Review, Research Agenda, Content Analysis

JEL Classification: D83

Suggested Citation:

Utama, A.A Gde Satia and Soewarno, Noorlailie and Agustia, Dian, Accounting Executives Narcissism: A Review and Research Agenda Using Content Analysis (2020). Humanities & Social Sciences Reviews, Vol 8, No 4, 2020, pp 822-839, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3687828
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
G Abatecola , M Cristofaro
Hambrick and Mason's "Upper Echelons Theory": evolution and open avenues
Journal of Management History , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 116 - 136 Posted: 2020
Crossref
G Abatecola , G Mandarelli , S Poggesi
The personality factor: How top management teams make decisions. A literature review
Journal of Management and Governance , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 1073 - 1100 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Humanities & Social Sciences Reviews , volume 8 , issue 4 , p. 822 - 839 Posted: 2020
Crossref
A Agnihotri , S Bhattacharya
CEO Narcissism and Internationalization by Indian Firms
Management International Review , volume 59 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,015
RANK
398,904
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies