Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Characteristics, Corporate Governance and Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of State-Owned Commercial Banks of Bangladesh

Abdullah Al Masud and Syed A. Mamun (2019), Firm -Characteristics, Corporate Governance and Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of State-Owned Commercial Banks of Bangladesh, Southeast Business Review, Vol. IX No. 1 & 2, January-December, 2019.

18 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2020

Abdullah Al Masud

Southeast University, Dhaka, Bangladesh

Syed A. Mamun, PhD, FCMA

Universiti Utara Malaysia - School of Accountancy; Credit Rating Information and Services Limited

Date Written: December 31, 2019

Abstract

Non- Performing Loans (NPLs) are the major sources of risk for any lending institution. At present, NPL ratio of State-Owned Commercial Banks (SCBs) of Bangladesh is well beyond comfortable level. This paper examines firm-characteristics and corporate governance measures as the firm-specific determinants of NPLs. The current research considers six years data of six SCBs to assess the relationship of firm-specific determinants such as management quality, moral hazard through excessive lending, cyclicality of credit, board size and board independence with the level of NPLs. Results of this study indicate that cyclicality of credit, moral hazard, and corporate governance attributes such as board size and board independence are significantly associated with NPL ratio. The major implication of these findings is to assist policy makers, regulators and management of banks for enhancing their understanding about the role of different firm-specific factors and corporate governance practices on NPLs in SCBs of Bangladesh.

Keywords: Non-Performing Loan, Corporate Governance, Moral Hazard, State Owned Commercial Bank, Bangladesh

JEL Classification: G21, G32, G33

Suggested Citation:

Al Masud, Abdullah and Mamun, PhD, FCMA, Syed Abdulla Al and Mamun, PhD, FCMA, Syed Abdulla Al, Firm Characteristics, Corporate Governance and Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of State-Owned Commercial Banks of Bangladesh (December 31, 2019). Abdullah Al Masud and Syed A. Mamun (2019), Firm -Characteristics, Corporate Governance and Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of State-Owned Commercial Banks of Bangladesh, Southeast Business Review, Vol. IX No. 1 & 2, January-December, 2019., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3687161
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
855
RANK
252,662
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies