Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Regulation, Investor Behavior, and Market Integration: Evidence from Form 20-F Reconciliation Elimination

Posted: 12 Sep 2020

Yongtae Kim

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Jedson Pinto

University of Texas at Dallas

Edward Sul

George Washington University

Date Written: September 6, 2020

Abstract

In 2007, the SEC eliminated the Form 20-F reconciliation requirement for cross-listed firms that prepare financial statements under IFRS (IFRS filers). We examine the effect of this elimination on investors’ information acquisition decisions and how accounting information is used across multiple markets. Using a difference-in-differences analysis with non-IFRS filers as a control sample, we show that investors download fewer Form 20-F filings after the elimination, if IFRS filers’ 20-Fs are filed with a significant delay. Consistent with a shift of investors’ attention away from Form 20-Fs to local earnings announcements, we also find greater US market reactions to IFRS filers’ home-country earnings announcements. In addition, we find that the reconciliation elimination increases return co-movement between the US ADR market and IFRS filers’ home-country stock market, especially during months of IFRS filers’ home-country earnings announcements. Our results bring novel insights regarding the cross-market impact of the disclosure policy change.

Keywords: Disclosure, Investor Attention, Market Integration, IFRS, Cross-Listing

JEL Classification: G12, G15, G18, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Yongtae and Pinto, Jedson and Sul, Edward, Disclosure Regulation, Investor Behavior, and Market Integration: Evidence from Form 20-F Reconciliation Elimination (September 6, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3687539
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,169
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies