Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Peer-Specific Knowledge and Peer Group Properties in Relative Performance Evaluation

Journal of Management Accounting Research, In-Press, https://doi.org/10.2308/JMAR-2022-013

Posted: 24 Oct 2020 Last revised: 23 Oct 2023

Chung-Yu Hung

University of Melbourne

Zhenyang Shi

BI Norwegian Business School

Date Written: September 19, 2023

Abstract

Although relative performance evaluation (RPE) represents an important compensation practice, selecting a relevant peer firm poses a challenge for compensation committees. We study the implications of a committee’s peer-specific knowledge for the peer group property (i.e., RPE relevance). Committees likely know more about firms within their networks, and such peer-specific knowledge increases with their connections to potential peer firms. Our findings suggest that peer-specific knowledge facilitates not only the inclusion of more relevant peer firms, but also the exclusion of less relevant ones. Moreover, the committees incorporate connected peers’ performance information to a greater extent for risk removal. We address identification challenges by including an intensive set of fixed effects to control for characteristics of the focal and the peer firms and by exploiting exogenous changes to the connections between the committees and the peer firms. Our findings suggest that the compensation committee’s peer-specific knowledge facilitates the RPE practice.

Keywords: Peer-Specific Knowledge; Social Connections; Relative Performance Evaluation; Compensation Committee

JEL Classification: D22; M52; I19

Suggested Citation:

Hung, Chung-Yu and Shi, Zhenyang, Peer-Specific Knowledge and Peer Group Properties in Relative Performance Evaluation (September 19, 2023). Journal of Management Accounting Research, In-Press, https://doi.org/10.2308/JMAR-2022-013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3687291
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
897
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies