Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Determines the Voluntary Disclosure of CEO Succession Planning?

Korean Accounting Review, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2020

Min Kwan Ahn

University of Hong Kong

Jeong Hwan Joo

Business Administration School, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology

Date Written: September 7, 2020

Abstract

An established succession planning program for the identification and grooming of its next leader helps maintain the continuity of firm strategy and leadership style, which influences longterm firm performance and viability. Disclosure of succession planning information may alleviate investors’ doubts about whether the firm has a succession planning plan, while it may increase competition for CEO candidates, leading to increases in the cost of securing qualified candidates. This study explores what determines firms’ decisions to provide this disclosure using firms that initiate CEO succession planning disclosure in a given year and their control firms. We find that firms are more likely to initiate the disclosure of CEO succession planning when 1) segment concentration (negatively related to organizational complexity) becomes lower, 2) the board of directors becomes more independent, 3) the CEO has reached the retirement age of 64, 4) the CEO becomes more important relative to other executive officers in the industry labor market, 5) the number of analysts following (reflecting external monitoring) increases, and 6) CEO tenure (reflecting CEO entrenchment) declines. Overall, our findings suggest that the disclosure of CEO succession planning is motivated by investor demand for a smooth transition among top management and enhanced transparency in CEO succession planning.

Keywords: CEO turnover; Corporate governance; Succession planning; Succession planning disclosure

JEL Classification: G18, G34, M49

Suggested Citation:

Ahn, Min Kwan and Joo, Jeong Hwan, What Determines the Voluntary Disclosure of CEO Succession Planning? (September 7, 2020). Korean Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3688639 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3688639
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Agrawal , R K Charles , T Tsoulouhas
Are outsiders handicapped in CEO successions
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 619 - 644 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Aguilar
CEO succession planning current developments, shareholder activism, and disclosure practices Posted: 2012
W R Baber , S-H Kang , K Kumar
Accounting earnings and executive compensation:: The role of earnings persistence
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 193 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,103
RANK
422,747
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies