Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Affecting the Dividend Payout Ratio of Agriculture and Mining Companies

Martin, A., & Panggabean, R.R. (2020). Factors affecting the dividend payout ratio of agriculture and mining companies. Jurnal Akuntansi, 14(1), 46-64.

19 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2020

Antonius Martin

Accounting Department, Faculty of Economics and Communication, Bina Nusantara University

Rosinta Ria Panggabean

Accounting Department, Faculty of Economics and Communication, Bina Nusantara University

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

The main purpose of this research was to determine the effect of Cash Ratio (CR), Sales Growth (SG), and Investment Opportunity Set (IOS), on the Dividend Payout Ratio (DPR). This quantitative research used a sample of 18 agriculture and mining companies listed in Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) between 2013 and 2017. The data used in this research were secondary data such as financial statements and annual reports. Data analysis employed a panel data regression test with Eviews program version 10. The results of hypothesis testing show that cash ratio has a significant and positive effect on dividend payout ratio, but sales growth and investment opportunity set do not have a significant effect on dividend payout ratio. Meanwhile, the simultaneous hypothesis results show that cash ratio, sales growth, and investment opportunity set affect the dividend payout ratio. This study adds new independent variables that are different from the reference research, namely the cash ratio and investment opportunity set.

Keywords: Cash Ratio, Sales Growth, Investment Opportunity Set, Dividend Payout Ratio

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Martin, Antonius and Panggabean, Rosinta Ria, Factors Affecting the Dividend Payout Ratio of Agriculture and Mining Companies (2020). Martin, A., & Panggabean, R.R. (2020). Factors affecting the dividend payout ratio of agriculture and mining companies. Jurnal Akuntansi, 14(1), 46-64., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3688615
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
J Ahmed
The determinants of dividend policy in Pakistan
International Research Journal of Finance and Economics , volume 29 , p. 110 - 125 Posted: 2009
Zainudin Akmal , Yulianti. ; Antonius Martin Dan Rosinta Ria Panggabean
Pengaruh return on asset, sales growth, firm size dan debt to equity ratio terhadap pembayaran dividen pada perusahaan manufaktur sub sektor perusahaan makanan dan minuman yang terdaftar di Bursa Efek Indonesia periode 2010-2014. (The effect of return on asset, FACTORS AFFECTING THE DIVIDEND PAYOUT RATIO OF AGRICULTURE AND MINING COMPANIE Posted: 2016
sales growth, firm size and debt to equity ratio on dividen payment in manufacturing companies -sub sector of food and beverage listed in the Indonesia Stock Exchange within the period of
Jurnal Ekonomi Manajemen dan Akuntansi Universitas Serambi Mekkah , volume 2 , issue 2 Posted: 2010
P Artini
Pengaruh investment opportunity set, total asset turn over dan sales growth terhadap kebijakan dividen. (The effect of opportunity set, total asset turn over and sales growth on dividen policy) E-Jurnal Manajemen Unud , volume 5 , p. 1309 - 1337 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
968
RANK
286,433
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies