Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Basel III on Profitability & Capital Adequacy of Private Commercial Banks in Bangladesh and Banking Generation Wise Implementation Status of Basel Accord in Bangladesh

27 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2020

Mohiuddin Tipu

Trent University

Date Written: January 7, 2019

Abstract

Nowadays it becomes paramount to keep a vigilant eye on the capital adequacy, liquidity, and risk management functions of the banks in order to ensure prudential governance. One single globally accepted solution for this is to be compliant with the principles of Basel Accords. Basel Implementation has greater consequences in the context of the banking industry of Bangladesh. On one hand, fortified capital and liquidity requirements helping the banking system of Bangladesh to be stabilized and safer, on the other side, it is somewhat expensive for banks to hold extra capital and to be more liquid.

This study attempts to reveal the implementation status of Basel III by generation wise banks in Bangladesh. Furthermore, an analysis has been conducted to divulge the impact of implementing Basel III on the profitability and capital adequacy of banks. Nine (9) Private Commercial Banks, from different generations, have been considered to determine the linkage between the financial performance and Basel Standards. The gap among the generation wise banks in implementing Basel Standards also been addressed in the study.

Keywords: Capital Adequacy, Liquidity, Basel III, Generation Wise Banks, Financial Performance

Suggested Citation:

Tipu, Mohiuddin, Impact of Basel III on Profitability & Capital Adequacy of Private Commercial Banks in Bangladesh and Banking Generation Wise Implementation Status of Basel Accord in Bangladesh (January 7, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3688727 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3688727
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
537
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,033
RANK
118,885
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies