Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of International Takeover Laws on Corporate Resource Adjustments: Market Discipline And/Or Managerial Myopia?

Journal of International Business Studies, 2020, Volume 51, 1773-1477.

Posted: 1 Oct 2020 Last revised: 31 Dec 2020

James N. Cannon

Iowa State University; Utah State University, School of Accountancy

Bingbing Hu

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU)

Jay Junghun Lee

University of Massachusetts Boston

Daoguang Yang

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE)-Business School

Date Written: November 5, 2020

Abstract

Practitioners often claim that takeover pressure induces managerial myopia (short-termism), but academic research provides limited empirical evidence supporting this assertion. This study fills this void by investigating how takeover threat influences managers’ resource adjustment decisions. Specifically, we exploit the staggered enactments of merger and acquisition laws across countries as exogenous shocks that facilitate takeover transactions and increase takeover threat. While we find some evidence that takeover laws deter managers from acquiring and retaining excess resources (market discipline), we find more prevailing evidence that such law enactments induce managers to pursue short-term profits through underinvesting in resources meant to create long-term value (managerial myopia). Cross-country analyses reveal that the effect of takeover legislation on resource adjustments is concentrated in countries with weak investor protection and in countries with short-term-oriented culture. Consistent with managerial myopia, we also find that corporate resources contribute less to the long-term value in the post-enactment period and that firm profitability improves immediately after the enactment but then gradually reverts to the pre-enactment level. Collectively, our evidence suggests that policymakers, corporate boards, investors, and researchers, when assessing the net effects of takeover threats, should consider both the downside of inciting myopic behavior and the upside of tightening managerial discipline.
* The full-text is available at https://rdcu.be/b9N1I

Keywords: takeover laws, resource adjustments, market discipline, managerial myopia, short-termism, cost asymmetry

JEL Classification: G34, M16, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cannon, James N. and Cannon, James N. and Hu, Bingbing and Lee, Jay Junghun and Yang, Daoguang, The Effect of International Takeover Laws on Corporate Resource Adjustments: Market Discipline And/Or Managerial Myopia? (November 5, 2020). Journal of International Business Studies, 2020, Volume 51, 1773-1477., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3689992
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,010
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies