Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shadow Trading

The Accounting Review, July 2021

64 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2020 Last revised: 11 Sep 2021

Mihir N. Mehta

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

David M. Reeb

National University of Singapore - Dept of Accounting

Wanli Zhao

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 6, 2020

Abstract

We investigate whether corporate insiders attempt to circumvent insider trading restrictions by using their private information to facilitate trading in economically-linked firms, a phenomenon we call “shadow trading.” Using measures of informed trading to proxy for shadow trading, we find increased levels of informed trading among business partners and competitors before a firm releases private information. To rule out alternative explanations, we examine two shocks to insiders’ incentives to engage in shadow trading: high-profile regulatory enforcement against conventional insider trading and staggered changes to their outside employment opportunities. Finally, we document attenuated levels of informed trading among business partners and competitors when firms prohibit shadow trading. Overall, we provide evidence that shadow trading is an undocumented and widespread mechanism that insiders use to avoid regulatory scrutiny.

Keywords: Business Partners, Insider Trading, Private Information, Information Transfers, Spillover, SEC

JEL Classification: D4, G14, K22

Suggested Citation:

Mehta, Mihir N. and Reeb, David M. and Zhao, Wanli, Shadow Trading (September 6, 2020). The Accounting Review, July 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3689154
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
M Hertzel , Z Li , M Officer , K Rodgers
Inter-firm linkages and the wealth effects of financial distress along the supply chain
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 87 , p. 374 - 387 Posted: 2008
G Hilary , R Shen
The role of analysts in intra-industry information transfer
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , p. 1265 - 1287 Posted: 2013
G Hoberg , G Phillips
Product market synergies and competition in mergers and acquisitions: A text-based analysis
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , p. 3773 - 3811 Posted: 2010
G Hoberg , G Phillips
Text-based network industries and endogenous product differentiation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 124 , p. 1423 - 1465 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,263
RANK
15,434
6 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies