Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Management’s Internal Audit Experience on Earnings Management

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2020 Last revised: 14 Feb 2022

Matthew Ege

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

Mikhail Sterin

Texas State University

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: February 11, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether firms with managers that have prior internal audit experience are less likely to manage earnings. This examination is important because the internal audit function is uniquely positioned to provide experiences that could influence future managerial behavior, including limiting the potential negative repercussions of earnings management. We find that firms with managers that have internal audit experience are associated with lower real earnings management but not accruals-based earnings management. Effects are strongest when managers with internal audit experience have greater power or currently hold financial roles, or when there are a greater number of managers with internal audit experience. The results are robust to including firm fixed effects, using entropy-balancing and performance-matching approaches, using a subsample of firm-years required to have an internal audit function, using a subsample of firms for which we can measure internal audit function quality, and measuring internal audit experience at a previous employer. These results point to an important benefit of manager internal audit experience, as research suggests that real earnings management is common, difficult to detect, not always within the scope of financial reporting regulators, and detrimental to future performance.

Keywords: Internal audit, Management experience, Earnings management, Real earnings management, Accruals-based earnings management

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M49, M55, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Ege, Matthew and Seidel, Timothy A. and Sterin, Mikhail and Wood, David A., The Influence of Management’s Internal Audit Experience on Earnings Management (February 11, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3689331 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3689331
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
J K Aier , J Comprix , M T Gunlock , D Lee
The financial expertise of CFOs and accounting restatements
Accounting Horizons , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 123 - 135 Posted: 2005
A Albrecht , E G Mauldin , N J Newton
Do auditors recognize the potential dark side of executives' accounting competence?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2018
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Load more
1 Citations
Marc Eulerich , Joleen Kremin , K. Kelli Saunders , David A. Wood
Internal Audit Stigma Impairs Internal Audit Outcomes
40 Pages · Posted: 16 Nov 2017 · Last revised: 15 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 434
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
474
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,813
RANK
138,343
1 Citations
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies