Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Midair Refueling for Sensation Seeking? Pilot CEOs and Corporate Debt Contracting

55 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2020

Steven Freund

University of Massachusetts Lowell - Department of Finance

Tunde Kovacs

University of Massachusetts Lowell

Nam Nguyen

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley

Hieu V. Phan

University of Massachusetts Lowell - The Robert J. Manning School of Business

Date Written: September 11, 2020

Abstract

We examine the relation between chief executive officer (CEO) sensation seeking, which captures the desire for varied, novel, and complex personal sensations and experiences, and corporate debt contracting. Using pilot certificates as a proxy for the personality trait of sensation seeking, we find that firms with pilot CEOs use longer maturity debt financing even when long-term debt is more costly than short-term debt. Our findings are robust to controlling for the endogenous matching between firms and CEOs. Our evidence indicates that CEOs with sensation-seeking personality traits prefer long-term debt financing to avoid the liquidity risk associated with short-term debt financing that may hamper other corporate activities motivated by their sensation seeking.

Keywords: CEO Personality, Sensation Seeking, Debt Contracting, Corporate Debt Maturity, Cost of Capital, Liquidity Risk

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Freund, Steven and Kovacs, Tunde and Nguyen, Nam and Phan, Hieu V., Midair Refueling for Sensation Seeking? Pilot CEOs and Corporate Debt Contracting (September 11, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3690767 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3690767
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
V Aivazian , Y Ge , J Qiu
Debt maturity structure and firm investment
Financial Management , volume 34 , p. 107 - 119 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Barclay , C Smith
The maturity structure of corporate debt
Journal of Finance , volume 50 , p. 609 - 631 Posted: 1995
Crossref
M Barclay , L Marx , C Smith
The joint determination of leverage and maturity
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 9 , p. 149 - 167 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,122
RANK
576,053
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies