Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Ethical Performance and its Consequences: Evidence from Indonesia

Asian Administration & Management Review, Vol. 3, No. 1, 2020

11 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2020

Andi Luhur Prianto

Department of Government, Faculty of Social & Political Science, Universitas Muhammadiyah Makassar

Pannamas Aramrueang

Kasetsart University - The Political Science Association of Kasetsart University (PSAKU)

Pissanu Horakul

Graduate School, Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University, Thailand

Date Written: January 1, 2020

Abstract

Growing environmental issues have made in compulsory for organizations to consider their impact on the environment. Business scandals have also pushed the organizations to be ethical in their business operations to build a positive reputation. Having considered the importance of the issue the present study attempted to examine the influence of corporate ethical performance on the CSR and corporate reputation. The study collected data by using the questionnaires and PLS-SEM used for data analysis. The study results signified that the ethics followed by organizations contribute towards the CSR and reputation. In addition, the results also postulated that the corporate governance gives strength to the influence of ethics on the CSR and reputation of an organization. Interestingly, governance appeared to have strong influence on the CSR and reputation.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Reputation, Ethics, Ethical Climate, Resources

Suggested Citation:

Prianto, Andi Luhur and Aramrueang, Pannamas and Horakul, Pissanu, Corporate Ethical Performance and its Consequences: Evidence from Indonesia (January 1, 2020). Asian Administration & Management Review, Vol. 3, No. 1, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3690780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
R Aguilera , C Florackis , H Kim
Advancing the corporate governance research agenda
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 172 - 180 Posted: 2016
Crossref
A Cadbury
Report of the committee on the financial aspects of corporate governance , volume 1 Posted: 1992
S Claessens , B Yurtoglu
Corporate governance in emerging markets: A survey. Emerging markets review , volume 15 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R Del Rosario
Corporate social responsibility in Southeast Asia: An eight country analysis Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
461
RANK
833,930
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies