Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Rise of Dual-Class Stock IPOs

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Vol. 144, No. 1, 2022

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 806/2021

78 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2020 Last revised: 11 Feb 2022

Dhruv Aggarwal

Northwestern University - Pritzker School of Law

Ofer Eldar

University of California, Berkeley - School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Halle Institute for Economic Research

Yael V. Hochberg

National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Lubomir P. Litov

University of Oklahoma - Michael F. Price College of Business; University of Pennsylvania - Wharton Financial Institutions Center

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 23, 2021

Abstract

We create a novel dataset to examine the recent rise in dual-class IPOs. We document that dual-class firms have different types of controlling shareholders and wedges between voting and economic rights, and that the increasing popularity of dual-class structures is driven by founder-controlled firms. We find that founders’ wedge is greater when founders have stronger bargaining power. The increase in founder control over time is due to greater availability of private capital and technological shocks that reduced firms’ needs for external financing. Stronger bargaining power is also associated with a lower likelihood of sunset provisions that terminate dual-class structures.

Keywords: Dual-Class, Initial Public Offerings (IPOs), Entrepreneurship, Corporate Governance, Venture Capital, Private Firms, Raising Capita

JEL Classification: G34, G28, G24

Suggested Citation:

Aggarwal, Dhruv and Eldar, Ofer and Hochberg, Yael V. and Litov, Lubomir P., The Rise of Dual-Class Stock IPOs (November 23, 2021). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Vol. 144, No. 1, 2022, European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 806/2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3690670 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3690670
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
J Aizenman , J Kendall
The internationalization of venture capital
Journal of Economic Studies , volume 39 , p. 488 - 511 Posted: 2012
W Alden
Venture capitalists coddle entrepreneurs as royalty Posted: 2014
A Alon-Beck
The new unicorn investors-disruptors or distractors? Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,891
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,825
RANK
19,072
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies