Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the Serotonin Transporter Gene Associated with Board and Management Diversity? A Cross-National Study

27 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2020

Toru Yoshikawa

Singapore Management University - Lee Kong Chian School of Business

Rosa M. Hernandez-Maestro

University of Salamanca - Administration and Business Economics

Date Written: July 30, 2020

Abstract

This study aims to explore how the serotonin transporter gene affects corporate governance practices in an economy directly and indirectly through national culture. We investigate how the serotonin transporter gene affects corporate governance practices, especially board and management gender diversity and board independence in different economies. Our empirical analyses reveal that the prevalence of the S-allele carriers in an economy is negatively associated with board and management gender diversity and board independence. We also find that cultural collectivism mediates the effect of the S-allele on board gender diversity to some extent. By uncovering the relationships between human genes, national culture, and corporate governance practices in different economies, this study contributes to comparative corporate governance research. Specifically, this study offers some evidence that genetic differences may impact governance and management practices. By doing so, the study extends the scope of cross-national comparison of corporate governance practices.



Keywords: corporate governance, human genes, socio-biology, gender diversity, board independence, cultural evolution

JEL Classification: M1, M10, M14

Suggested Citation:

Yoshikawa, Toru and Hernandez-Maestro, Rosa M., Is the Serotonin Transporter Gene Associated with Board and Management Diversity? A Cross-National Study (July 30, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3691351 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3691351
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
N Basabe , Ros M
Cultural dimensions and social behavior correlates: Individualism-collectivism and power distance
Revue Internationale de Psychologie Sociale , volume 1 , p. 189 - 225 Posted: 2005
J S Black , A J Morrison
A cautionary tale for emerging market giants
Harvard Business Review , volume 88 , p. 99 - 103 Posted: 2010-09
R Boyd , P J Richerson
Culture and the evolutionary process Posted: 1985
T Canli , K P Lesch
Long story short: the serotonin transporter in emotion regulation and social cognition
Nature Neuroscience , volume 10 , p. 1103 - 1109 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
718
RANK
730,194
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies