Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Policy Measures to Combat the SARS-CoV-2 Pandemic and Considerations to Improve Tax Compliance: A Behavioral Perspective

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2020-10

40 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2020 Last revised: 30 Oct 2020

James Alm

Tulane University

Kay Blaufus

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Martin Fochmann

Free University of Berlin

Erich Kirchler

University of Vienna - Faculty of Psychology; Institute for Advanced Studies, Vienna

Peter Mohr

Free University of Berlin (FUB)

Nina E. Olson

Center for Taxpayer Rights

Benno Torgler

Queensland University of Technology; CREMA; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute for Economic Research)

Date Written: October 22, 2020

Abstract

Governments have taken remarkable measures during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic in their efforts to safeguard citizens’ health and the economy. As a consequence, public debts have reached unprecedented levels, which will require at some point higher taxes. Ensuring that citizens pay these taxes requires consideration of the many factors that will likely affect their tax compliance decisions. In this paper, we reflect from a behavioral economic perspective the impact of tax policy measures on the perception, evaluation, and behavior of citizens and derive considerations to devise appropriate tax policies to ensure compliance in the future. We start with speculations about citizens’ views of governmental restrictions and economic stimulus measures in response to the crisis, we apply these speculations to the acceptance and perceived effectiveness of policy measures on citizens’ tax compliance behaviors, and we finish with their likely impact on determinants of tax compliance. Building on the derived insights, we deduce a set of considerations to improve tax compliance – and to generate the necessary tax revenues to deal with the after-effects of SARS-CoV-2 when the pandemic is under control: communication, transparency and justification of measures, access to support, service provision, audits and penalties in case of free-riding, targeted audits, building social norms of cooperation, consideration of framing effects, development of plans and strategies for the future, and anticipation of hindsight biases.

Keywords: Covid-19 crisis, tax compliance, behavioral economics, behavioral taxation

JEL Classification: H12, H20, H26, D91

Suggested Citation:

Alm, James and Blaufus, Kay and Fochmann, Martin and Kirchler, Erich and Mohr, Peter and Olson, Nina E. and Torgler, Benno, Tax Policy Measures to Combat the SARS-CoV-2 Pandemic and Considerations to Improve Tax Compliance: A Behavioral Perspective (October 22, 2020). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2020-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3692370 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3692370
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
123 References
J Abeler , S Jäger
Complex tax incentives
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Adams-Prassl , T Boneva , M Golin , C Rauh
Inequality in the impact of the coronavirus shock: Evidence from real time surveys
Journal of Public Economics , volume 189 Posted: 2020
Crossref
B Adhikari , J Alm , B Collins , M Sebastiani , E Wilking
Using a natural experiment in the taxicab industry to analyze the effects of third-party income reporting Posted: 2020
B Adhikari , J Alm , T F Harris
Small business tax compliance under third-party Reporting Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,051
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,658
RANK
48,819
50 Citations
123 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies