Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Is a Gift That Encourages Trust and Reciprocity

41 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2020

Satoshi Taguchi

Doshisha University

Yoshio Kamijo

Waseda University - School of Political Science and Economics

Date Written: September 1, 2020

Abstract

Information disclosure is important for the economic well-being of society. Furthermore, given various issues, such as disclosure related to corporate social responsibility and scientific communication between scientists and society, the state of information disclosure is closely related to societal trust. However, the current stock markets are increasingly biased toward short-term transactions, and exchanges of information over the Internet are becoming more anonymous, meaning that they do not lead to long-term connections. Therefore, the conventional means of building trust indirectly over the long term may no longer be sufficient.

We experimentally examine the impact of varying intentions behind information disclosures on trust and reciprocity during short-term relationships where reputations cannot be established. We use a trust game with asymmetric information and conduct laboratory experiments, comparing one unintentional disclosure condition and two intentional disclosure conditions. The results reveal that information disclosure promotes investments and returns under all three conditions. Further, compared with unintentional disclosure, intentional disclosure fosters greater trust and reciprocity. Our results also show that intentional information disclosure also weakens the trade-off between efficiency and fairness in society.

Our study sheds light on the merits of intentional disclosures in the modern age, in which increasingly anonymized and short-term human relationships have destroyed the premises upon which the formation of reputation was previously based. The conclusion of this research also suggests the necessity of emphasizing the intention behind information disclosure regarding, for example, the design of systems for companies to disclose environmental information and the ways scientific communication should be carried out.

Keywords: Disclosure, Trust Game, Gift Exchange, Intention

JEL Classification: D03. D82. M41

Suggested Citation:

Taguchi, Satoshi and Kamijo, Yoshio, Disclosure Is a Gift That Encourages Trust and Reciprocity (September 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3692382 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3692382
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
A Bovet , H A Makse
Influence of fake news in Twitter during the 2016 US presidential election
Nat Commun , volume 10 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2019
Crossref
C Shao
The spread of low-credibility content by social bots
Nat Commun , volume 9 , p. 1 - 9 Posted: 2018
Crossref
S Vosoughi , D Roy , S Aral
The spread of true and false news online
Science , volume 359 , p. 1146 - 1151 Posted: 2018
Crossref
D A Scheufele , N M Krause
Science audiences, misinformation, and fake news
Proc Natl Acad Sci , volume 116 , issue 16 , p. 7662 - 7669 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,097
RANK
418,259
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies