Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Letters and Impression Management in Indonesia: Loss Firms vs. Profit Firms

MSc Accounting and Finance 2014/2015

55 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2020

Anis Al Rosjidi

Universitas Islam Indonesia; University of Warwick, Warwick Business School

Date Written: September 2, 2015

Abstract

CEO letters are considered as important accounting narratives. Investors, both non-professional and professional, often use CEO letters as a basis for investment decisions. We conducted content analysis of CEO letters. About 32 samples of loss firms and 32 samples of comparable profit firms listed in Indonesian Stock Exchange in 2010–2014 have been used in this study. We found that the contents of CEO letters are biased. Managers stress good news and downplay bad news. Managers attribute good news to themselves but credit bad news to external circumstances. Biased CEO letters can affect investors’ judgement and decisions. Hence, regulator body can regulate the contents of CEO letters and ask independent third parties to review CEO letters before they are released to public.

Keywords: CEO Letters, Accounting Narratives, Content Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Rosjidi, Anis Al, CEO Letters and Impression Management in Indonesia: Loss Firms vs. Profit Firms (September 2, 2015). MSc Accounting and Finance 2014/2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3692821
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
E Abrahamson , E Amir
The information content of the president's letter to shareholders'
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 23 , issue 8 , p. 1157 - 1182 Posted: 1996
Crossref
W Aerts
Inertia in the attributional content of annual accounting narratives'. The European Accounting Review , volume 10 , p. 3 - 32 Posted: 2001
Crossref
P Balata , G Breton
Narratives vs numbers in the annual report: are they giving the same message to the investors?
Review of Accounting and Finance , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 5 - 14 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S A Bartlett , R A Chandler
The corporate report and the private shareholder: Lee and Tweedie twenty years on
British Accounting Review , volume 29 , p. 245 - 261 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
542
RANK
759,678
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies