Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustaining Competitive Advantage Through Good Governance and Fiscal Controls: Risk Determinants in Internal Controls

Corporate Ownership & Control, 2020

13 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2020

Jahidur Md Rahman

Wenzhou-Kean University

Rob Kim Marjerison

Wenzhou-Kean University

Date Written: September 12, 2020

Abstract

This study conducts a comprehensive review of the literature published during 1989-2020 to identify the factors that can cause internal control weakness. This review is organized around five main groups, namely: 1) rapid growth and restructuring, 2) financial reporting complexity, 3) auditor tenure, 4) cultural differences, and 5) corporate governance. We perform an integrated literature review approach. Among the several factors found, some factors (the proportion of managerial ownership, Individualism, power distance, financial reporting complexity, rapid growth, and auditor-customer geographic distance) have a positive relationship with internal control weakness while others (the quality of the board of directors and auditing committees, directors’ compensation, and uncertainty avoidance) have a negative relationship. The findings contribute to future research by examining the factors that can cause internal control weakness from different perspectives, which will prove to be useful for investors, auditors, audit committee members, managers, and other stakeholders regarding the prevention of internal controls weaknesses through the application of solid internal controls as well as a path towards the improvement of existing problems of internal control weakness.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Cultural Differences, Financial Reporting Complexity, Growth and Restructuring, Internal Control Weakness, Auditor Tenure

JEL Classification: G34, M42, D53

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Jahidur Md and Marjerison, Rob Kim, Sustaining Competitive Advantage Through Good Governance and Fiscal Controls: Risk Determinants in Internal Controls (September 12, 2020). Corporate Ownership & Control, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3693963
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
327
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,657
RANK
210,853
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies