Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partners in Leadership Roles: Implications for Audit Quality

59 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2020 Last revised: 10 Nov 2022

Will Anding

University of Texas at San Antonio - Alvarez College of Business

Michael J. Mowchan

Baylor University

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 1, 2023

Abstract

Audit partners are generally tasked with client service responsibilities; however, a select group is appointed to leadership roles within the accounting firm hierarchy at the office, regional, or national level. Drawing on theories of leadership, we conduct semi-structured interviews to provide evidence on how accounting firms select, evaluate, and support leaders from the audit practice. The insights from these interviews form the basis for our prediction that leadership roles can adversely influence the quality of a partner’s own audit engagements. Using a unique hand-collected dataset, we test this prediction empirically using a staggered difference-in-differences (DiD) research design. The results indicate that the audit quality of leaders’ engagements is lower on average after assuming a leadership role, and these findings are incremental to partner busyness and profit incentives. Moreover, these results are robust to two alternative methods to address biases inherent in staggered DiD research designs. These findings provide meaningful insights for audit firms, boards, audit committees, and regulators concerning the influence of leadership roles on the quality of an audit partner’s engagements.

Keywords: audit firm leadership, audit quality, audit partners, audit fees

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Anding, Will and Mowchan, Michael J. and Seidel, Timothy A. and Zimmerman, Aleksandra, Audit Partners in Leadership Roles: Implications for Audit Quality (September 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3694031 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3694031
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
560
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,459
RANK
112,757
2 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies