Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Seasoned Equity Issuers’ Prospectus Filings: How Informative Is Their Tone?

The Financial Review, Forthcoming

76 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2020 Last revised: 31 Jan 2022

Rongbing Huang

Kennesaw State University - Michael J. Coles College of Business

Hong Qian

Oakland University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Santhosh Ramalingegowda

University of Georgia - Terry College of Business

Date Written: January 27, 2022

Abstract

Seasoned equity issuers file Forms S and 424B with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We find that 424B filings’ weak-modal tone is positively related to offer price discounts and negatively related to offer-day stock returns. Increases in cautionary (weak-modal, uncertain, and negative) tone from the initial to final filing are followed by lower abnormal stock returns. Preliminary evidence indicates that cautionary tone relates positively to litigation risk and increased after the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our findings suggest that the cautionary tone of seasoned equity issuers’ prospectuses has negative information content, which is gradually incorporated into the stock prices.

Keywords: Seasoned Equity Offering, SEO, Textual Analysis, Tone, Disclosure, Security Issuance, Equity Issuance, Offer Price Discount, Underpricing, Corporate Disclosure, Risk Disclosure

JEL Classification: G14; G18; G24

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Rongbing and Qian, Hong and Ramalingegowda, Santhosh, Seasoned Equity Issuers’ Prospectus Filings: How Informative Is Their Tone? (January 27, 2022). The Financial Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3694659 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3694659
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,211
RANK
411,549
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies