Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Risk Oversight and Environmental and Social Performance

Journal of Accounting and Economics, (Forthcoming)

59 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2020 Last revised: 9 Mar 2025

Hami Amiraslani

ESMT European School of Management and Technology

Carolyn Deller

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Christopher D. Ittner

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Thomas Keusch

INSEAD

Date Written: November 14, 2024

Abstract

We examine the relation between board risk oversight and environmental and social (E&S) performance. Our study is motivated by heightened awareness of E&S risks and growing calls for their inclusion in the purview of board risk oversight. Using a novel proprietary dataset on board risk oversight for an international sample, we find that firms with more extensive board risk oversight are more likely to institute E&S compensation, set environmental (but not social) targets, adopt policies that address E&S risks and opportunities, and issue an E&S report. Our exploratory evidence also shows that more extensive board risk oversight is associated with better environmental outcomes, specifically lower monetized environmental costs, but worse social outcomes, namely lower monetized employee benefits and a higher likelihood of social risk incidents. Collectively, our results suggest that risk oversight is analogous to a constrained optimization problem whereby risk exposures are prioritized and receive different degrees of oversight consideration by the board.

Keywords: board of directors, board risk oversight, corporate governance, corporate social responsibility (CSR), environmental social and governance (ESG), sustainability, risk management

JEL Classification: G15, G23, G32

Suggested Citation:

Amiraslani, Hami and Deller, Carolyn and Ittner, Christopher D. and Keusch, Thomas, Board Risk Oversight and Environmental and Social Performance (November 14, 2024). Journal of Accounting and Economics, (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3695535 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3695535
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
R Adams , B Hermalin , M Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
J Altonji , T Elder , C Taber
Selection on observed and unobserved variables: Assessing the effectiveness of Catholic schools
Journal of Political Economy , volume 113 , issue 1 , p. 151 - 184 Posted: 2005
H Amiraslani , K Lins , H Servaes , A Tamayo
Trust, social capital, and the bond market benefits of ESG performance
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 421 - 462 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,498
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,851
RANK
29,070
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

INSEAD Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies