Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Influence of Corporate Attributes on Magnitude of Disclosure by Private Commercial Banks in Bangladesh

18 Pages Posted: 11 Nov 2020

Md. Tahidur Rahman

Bangladesh Army International University of Science and Technology (BAIUST) - Department of Business Administration; Bangladesh Army International University of Science and Technology

Mohammad Uddin

Independent

Date Written: January 31, 2016

Abstract

The study reports the results of an empirical investigation of the magnitude of disclosure by listed Private Commercial Banks (PCBs) in Bangladesh and the attributes influencing it. For the purpose of the study, samples were taken following the purposive sampling approach covering about 21 percent of the population. A researcher developed unweighted disclosure checklist containing 247 information items divided into ten groups, were utilized. Applying the Dichotomous scoring procedure, the study found an average disclosure of 75.76 percent with a constant growth during the study period. Significant differences were found while comparing the disclosure level among the years and among the sample banks under study. Out of the eight variables, the regression model used in the study found Log total assets, Return on Equity (ROE), and EPS as three influential contributors to disclosure; while other five variables were found to have insignificant influence on disclosure of PCBs in Bangladesh.

Keywords: Banking Sector, Corporate Attributes, Disclosure, Disclosure Index, Financial Reporting, Private Commercial Bank

JEL Classification: M41, G24

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Md. Tahidur and Rahman, Md. Tahidur and Uddin, Mohammad, Influence of Corporate Attributes on Magnitude of Disclosure by Private Commercial Banks in Bangladesh (January 31, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3696975 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3696975
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
A A A Ahmed
Compliance of financial disclosure in corporate annual reports of banking sector in Bangladesh. Unpublished doctoral dissertation Posted: 2009
K Ahmed , D Nicholls
The impact of non-financial company characteristics on mandatory compliance in developing countries: The case of Bangladesh
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 77 Posted: 1994
M Akhtaruddin
Corporate mandatory disclosure practices in Bangladesh
International Journal of Accounting , volume 40 , p. 399 - 422 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Alam
Financial disclosure in developing countries with special reference to Bangladesh Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
569
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies