Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nowhere to Hide: Corporate Restructuring Activities Response to Mandatory Segment Disclosure

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2020 Last revised: 18 Jul 2022

Trinh Hue Le

Monash University - Monash Centre for Financial Studies

Barry R. Oliver

University of Queensland - Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Kelvin Jui Keng Tan

University of Queensland - Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: July 18, 2022

Abstract

We examine the effect of mandatory financial disclosures, specifically SFAS 131, on corporate restructuring activities by using difference-in-differences (DiD) and regression discontinuity design (RDD) settings. After the adoption of SFAS 131, firms are less likely to engage in acquisitions than are the control firms. Furthermore, conditional on firms’ engagement in acquisition activities, acquirers are less likely to complete their initiated acquisition deals, especially for those value-destroying deals. After the implementation of SFAS 131, we find that the equity market reacts positively to large and diversifying deals that are subject to mandatory segment disclosures. Overall, our results suggest that the segment disclosure standard helped prevent managers from undertaking new, value-destroying M&As post-SFAS 131. Finally, these SFAS 131–induced corporate restructuring activities are shown to help reduce the risk of a stock price crash.

Keywords: Mergers and acquisitions, mandatory segment disclosure, SFAS 131, corporate restructuring, spinoff

JEL Classification: G34, G18, G14

Suggested Citation:

Le, Trinh and Oliver, Barry Ross and Tan, Kelvin Jui Keng, Nowhere to Hide: Corporate Restructuring Activities Response to Mandatory Segment Disclosure (July 18, 2022). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3697752 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3697752
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
G Andrade , M Mitchell , E Stafford
New Evidence and Perspectives on Mergers
Journal of Economics Perspectives , volume 15 , p. 130 - 150 Posted: 2001
D A Bens , S J Monahan
Disclosure quality and the excess value of diversification
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , issue 4 , p. 691 - 730 Posted: 2004
D A Bens , P G Berger , S J Monahan
Discretionary disclosure in financial reporting: An examination comparing internal firm data to externally reported segment data
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 2 , p. 417 - 449 Posted: 2011
G J Benston
Required disclosure and the stock market: An evaluation of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
The American Economic Review , volume 63 , issue 1 , p. 132 - 155 Posted: 1973
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,263
RANK
436,820
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies