Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Ownership and Audit Fees in European Listed Firms

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2020

Paul Pronobis

Free University of Bolzano-Bozen

Jonas Schaeuble

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 9, 2020

Abstract

This paper investigates whether foreign ownership affects audit fees by analyzing share-holdings of listed firms from Western European countries. The results show that foreign ownership is an important factor that drives the demand for audit services. However, the willingness to pay higher audit fees is mainly driven by the quality of governance and investor protection of the foreign investor’s home country. This is consistent with the notion that foreign investors encourage the firms that they invest in to implement the same corporate governance practices in terms of auditing that they themselves are sub-ject to in their home country. Finally, we document that the influence of the foreign investor on audit fees is increasing in the percentage of ownership held.

Keywords: foreign ownership, audit fees, shareholder protection, governance quality

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Pronobis, Paul and Schaeuble, Jonas, Foreign Ownership and Audit Fees in European Listed Firms (September 9, 2020). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3699772 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3699772
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
An empirical investigation of audit fees, nonaudit fees, and audit committees. Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , p. 215 - 234 Posted: 2003
Crossref
I Adelopo , K Jallow , P Scott
Multiple large ownership structure, audit committee activity and audit fees
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 100 - 121 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
Crossref
C B Ali , C Lesage
Ownership concentration and audit fees: Do auditors matter most when investors are protected least? Working Paper
Crises et nouvelles problématiques de la Valeur Posted: 2010
Load more
1 Citations
Maria Boutchkova , Diego C. Cueto , Angelica Gonzalez
Test power properties of within-firm estimators of ownership and board-related explanatory variables with low time variation
72 Pages · Posted: 1 Nov 2018 · Last revised: 21 Mar 2022 · Downloads: 87
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
893
RANK
481,162
1 Citations
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies