Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Board Characteristics and Risk Management on Financial Performance of Listed Insurance Firms in Nigeria

RESEARCH REVIEW International Journal of Multidisciplinary, Volume-05, Issue-03, March -2020

Posted: 25 Jan 2021

Olawale Sanni

Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) - Department Of Accounting

Danjuma Enebi

Kaduna Polytechnic

Patience Kanwai

Ahmadu Bello University (ABU)

Date Written: March 3, 2020

Abstract

The study examined the impact of board characteristics and risk management on financial performance of listed insurance firms in Nigeria for the period of 2012-2017. The study adopted correlational research design. The study used data extracted from annual reports of listed insurance firms in Nigeria. The study was anchored on the risk management theory and resources dependence theory to establish conceptual relationship between the variable .The population of the study comprised of the 30 listed insurance firms in Nigeria and 26 adjusted population was arrive based on availability of data. The data collected were analyzed with the aid of paneled regression. The findings revealed that solvency risk and underwriting risk have negative and significant relationship with financial performance of listed insurance firms. Based on the findings, the study recommends that Insurance firms should offer adequate diversification of insurance policy portfolio to have better premium earning that can compensate other loss when it’s occurred. Hence, insurance companies should give due attention on these areas to reduce the effect of underwriting risk for their performance and should also strive to attract more customers and boost their income through provision of enhanced estimation technique on insurance policy premium price to maximize their net premium earning and net asset. Since the country is growing and transforming into the age of industry with the existing paid up capital, it will be likely for insurance companies to face solvency risk.

Keywords: Financial performance, risk management and board characteristics

Suggested Citation:

Sanni, Olawale and Enebi, Danjuma and Kanwai, Patience, Impact of Board Characteristics and Risk Management on Financial Performance of Listed Insurance Firms in Nigeria (March 3, 2020). RESEARCH REVIEW International Journal of Multidisciplinary, Volume-05, Issue-03, March -2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3699083
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
404
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies