Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can a Not-for-Profit Minority Institutional Shareholder Make a Big Difference in Corporate Governance? A Quasi-Natural Experiment

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2020 Last revised: 6 Dec 2021

Wenxia Ge

University of Ottawa

Caiyue Ouyang

Beijing Jiaotong University

Zhenyang Shi

BI Norwegian Business School

zhanliao chen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 24, 2020

Abstract

In this study, we examine the effectiveness of the China Securities Investor Service Center (CSISC), a new minority shareholder protection mechanism promoted by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, in constraining earnings management. Employing a difference-in-differences analysis for a sample of Chinese listed companies during 2015-2017, we find that CSISC shareholding reduces earnings management. We also find that this effect exists when the internal and external corporate governance mechanisms of listed companies are weaker. Furthermore, our empirical evidence indicates that restraining tunneling is a channel through which the CSISC affects earnings management. The additional analyses show that the CSISC-holding firms (i.e., treatment firms) exhibit higher cumulative abnormal returns around the announcement of the CSISC shareholding pilot program than the control firms, and the difference in earnings management between the treatment and control firms is diminishing after the pilot program was promoted nationwide. Our findings have important policy implications for emerging markets that attempt to improve minority shareholder protection.

Keywords: China Securities Investor Service Center, Corporate Governance, Minority Shareholder Protection, Earnings Management, Tunneling

JEL Classification: G32, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ge, Wenxia and Ouyang, Caiyue and Shi, Zhenyang and chen, zhanliao, Can a Not-for-Profit Minority Institutional Shareholder Make a Big Difference in Corporate Governance? A Quasi-Natural Experiment (September 24, 2020). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3699287
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
J. Financ. Econ , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
R Ameer , R A Rahman
The impact of minority shareholder watchdog group activism on the performance of targeted firms in Malaysia
Asian Acad. Manag. J. Account. Fin , volume 5 , issue 1 Posted: 2009
B C Ayers , S Ramalingegowda , P E Yeung
Hometown advantage: the effects of monitoring institution location on financial reporting discretion
J. Account. Econ , volume 52 , issue 1 - 61 Posted: 2011
B M Barber , T Odean
The behavior of individual investors
Handbook of the Economics of Finance , volume 2 , p. 1533 - 1570 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,115
RANK
382,931
8 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies