Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Capital Structure on Profitability of Listed Insurance Firms in Nigeria

International Journal of Technical Research & Science, Volume IV Issue III, March 2019

10 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2020

Olawale Sanni

Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) - Department Of Accounting

Date Written: March 2019

Abstract

This study examined the effect of capital structure on profitability of listed insurance firms in Nigeria for the period of 2013-2017 The study used correlational research design. Data were collected from the published annual financial reports of studies listed insurance firms in Nigeria. The population of the study comprised of the 28 listed insurance firms. The sample size was fifteen (15) listed insurance firms in Nigeria. The data collected were analyzed with the aid of OLS multiple regression technique. Using 75 firm-year paneled observations, the result of the ordinary least square regression showed that short-term debt has a negative and significant effect on the profitability of listed insurance firms in Nigeria while long-term debt and premium growth have positive and significant effect on profitability of listed insurance firms in Nigeria. Based on the findings, the study recommended that the management of listed insurance firms should strive towards having optimum capital structure by increasing their equity level and reducing dependence on debts so as to avoid being cash strapped and debt ridden. Keywords: profitability, short-term debt, long-term debt and premium growth.

Keywords: profitability, short-term debt, long-term debt and premium growth

Suggested Citation:

Sanni, Olawale, Effect of Capital Structure on Profitability of Listed Insurance Firms in Nigeria (March 2019). International Journal of Technical Research & Science, Volume IV Issue III, March 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3699090
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
N Abu-Rub
Capital structure and firm performance: Evidence from Palestine stock exchange
J. Money Investment Bank , volume 23 , p. 109 - 116 Posted: 2012
O Akinlo
Determinants of Capital Structure: Evidence from Nigeria Panel Data
African Economic and Business Review , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 9 - 16 Posted: 2011
M Aftab , R Ehsan , S Naseer , T Awan
The effect of corporate strategy and capital structure on performance of banking sector of Pakistan
Global Journal of Management and Business Research , volume 12 , issue 17 , p. 67 - 79 Posted: 2012
S A Anafo , E Amponteng , L Yin
The Impact of Capital Structure on Profitability of Banks Listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
421
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,223
RANK
158,915
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies