Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Green Image Management in Supply Chains: Strategic Disclosure of Corporate Suppliers

50 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2020 Last revised: 16 Aug 2023

Yilin Shi

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Jing Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Yu Zhang

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Yuqing Zhou

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Date Written: July 25, 2020

Abstract

This paper examines how firms manage their disclosure of customer-supplier relationships to create a favorable green image in their supply chain. Our study finds strong evidence that firms strategically disclose relationships with environmentally responsible (“good”) suppliers while withholding relationships with “bad” suppliers, ceteris paribus. This strategic disclosure is particularly pronounced for firms with a worse ESG rating, a greater concern for their brand image, and a higher level of institutional ownership. Additionally, it tends to increase as public awareness of climate change grows and decreases as regulations on environmental information transparency strengthen. Furthermore, we find that firms engaging in strategic disclosure of “green” suppliers experience higher future stock returns and asset turnover, indicating that investors and consumers may not fully understand the implications of such disclosure.

Keywords: strategic disclosure, environmental, social, and governance (ESG), supply chain management, green image

JEL Classification: M41, M11, M14

Suggested Citation:

Shi, Yilin and Wu, Jing and Zhang, Yu and Zhou, Yuqing, Green Image Management in Supply Chains: Strategic Disclosure of Corporate Suppliers (July 25, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3700310 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3700310
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Senay Agca , Volodymyr Babich , Jing John R Birge , Wu
Credit risk propagation along supply chains: Evidence from the CDS market
Management Science Posted: 2021
Agrawal , Deishin Vishal , Lee
The effect of sourcing policies on suppliers' sustainable practices , volume 28 , p. 767 - 787 Posted: 2019
Katsiaryna Bardos , Mine Salavei , Lucia Silva Ertugrul , Gao
Corporate social responsibility, product market perception, and firm value
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 62 Posted: 2020
Global supply chain report
CDP Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,455
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,080
RANK
7,760
8 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies