Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An International Analysis of Director Equity Incentives and Earnings Management

Journal of Accounting and Finance, 18 (2), 123-143, 2017

32 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2020

Min-Yu (Stella) Liao

Illinois State University - Department of Finance, Insurance and Law

Stephen P. Ferris

University of Missouri at Columbia - Department of Finance

Date Written: December 4, 2017

Abstract

Using data from 29 countries, I examine how directors’ equity incentives affect earnings management internationally. I find that firms whose directors awarded higher percentage equity-based compensation are associated with greater use of earnings management. Such positive relation between equity incentives and earnings management persists regardless whether a director serves on the audit committee, or whether a director is classified as an independent or inside director. However, this association is reversed at firms with greater board or audit committee independence. Finally, using a matched sample of American Depository Receipts (ADRs) and non-ADRs, I provide evidence that although ADRs exhibit less earnings management relative to non-ADRs, having an ADR does not deter the attempt of directors with high equity incentives to manipulate earnings.

Keywords: governance; boards; compensation; audit; earnings management

JEL Classification: G3; J3; J33; M41; M42; M52

Suggested Citation:

Liao, Min-Yu (Stella) and Ferris, Stephen P., An International Analysis of Director Equity Incentives and Earnings Management (December 4, 2017). Journal of Accounting and Finance, 18 (2), 123-143, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3701827 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3701827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
814
RANK
735,901
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies