Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dark Side of Investor Conferences: Evidence of Managerial Opportunism

The Accounting Review, forthcoming

Jacobs Levy Equity Management Center for Quantitative Financial Research Paper

63 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2020 Last revised: 7 Oct 2022

Brian J. Bushee

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Daniel J. Taylor

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania

Christina Zhu

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Date Written: September 20, 2022

Abstract

While the shareholder benefits of investor conferences are well-documented, evidence on whether these conferences facilitate managerial opportunism is scarce. We examine whether managers opportunistically exploit heightened attention around the conference to “hype” the stock. We find that (1) managers increase the quantity of voluntary disclosure leading up to the conference; (2) these disclosures are more positive in tone and increase prices to a greater extent than post-conference disclosures; and (3) these disclosures are more pronounced when insiders sell their shares immediately prior to the conference. In circumstances where pre-conference disclosures coincide with pre-conference insider net selling, we find evidence of a significant return reversal––large positive returns before the conference and large negative returns after the conference––and that the firm is more likely to be named in a securities class action lawsuit. Collectively, our findings are consistent with some managers hyping the stock prior to the conference.

Keywords: Investor conferences, voluntary disclosure, private information, insider trading, opportunism

JEL Classification: G34, J33, K31, M52

Suggested Citation:

Bushee, Brian J. and Taylor, Daniel and Zhu, Christina, The Dark Side of Investor Conferences: Evidence of Managerial Opportunism (September 20, 2022). The Accounting Review, forthcoming, Jacobs Levy Equity Management Center for Quantitative Financial Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3701977 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3701977
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
K R Ahern , D Sosyura
Who writes the news? Corporate press releases during Merger Negotiations
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 241 - 291 Posted: 2014
M Arellano , J Hahn
Understanding bias in nonlinear panel models: Some recent developments , volume 43 , p. 381 - 409 Posted: 2007
S Arif , J D Kepler , J H Schroeder , D J Taylor
Audit process, private information, and insider trading
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2022
Load more
14 Citations
Dane M. Christensen , Arthur Morris , Beverly R. Walther , Laura A. Wellman
Political information flow and management guidance
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 1466 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Thomas Klikauer
Global Leadership Perspectives on Industry, Society, and Government in an Era of Uncertainty
, p. 1 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Scott Duellman , Jan Philipp Klaus , Blair Marquardt
Accounting Reporting Complexity as a Source of Insider Information Advantage: Evidence from Insider Trades
55 Pages · Posted: 14 Jul 2021 · Last revised: 12 May 2025 · Downloads: 341
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Panayiotis C. Andreou , Neophytos Lambertides , Marina Magidou
Stock Price Crash Risk and the ManagerialRhetoric Mechanism: Evidence from R&D Narrative Disclosure in 10-K filings <br> <br>
74 Pages · Posted: 24 Jul 2021 · Last revised: 14 Sep 2024 · Downloads: 359
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,430
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,541
RANK
31,162
14 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies