Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Financial Expertise, Litigation Risk, and Auditor-Provided Tax Services

Forthcoming, Accounting Perspectives

54 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2020

Jean Bédard

Université Laval - École de comptabilité

Suzanne M. Paquette

Université Laval, École de comptabilité

Date Written: July 28, 2020

Abstract

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act greatly expanded audit committees’ oversight responsibilities by requiring that they preapprove all non-prohibited non-audit services (NAS). Using data from 2003 to 2011, we find that tax NAS are significantly lower when accounting financial experts (ACT-FEs) serve on the audit committee, suggesting that ACT-FEs consider auditor independence risk, perceived and/or real, more than other members, including supervisory experts, to the point of not accepting any tax NAS, not even compliance. However, in firms with higher ex-ante litigation risk, ACT-FEs approve relatively more tax NAS than other members, suggesting that they accept the costs of a perceived lack of auditor independence from tax NAS in return for the potential benefits of increased financial reporting quality arising from tax NAS. Our analysis by sub-period (2003 to 2006 versus 2007 to 2011) shows that this result is significant only in the second period. ACT-FEs’ differential evaluation of the trade-off between the benefits and costs of joint audit and tax NAS provision between the two periods suggests the need for additional research in later post SOX years.

Keywords: Auditor-provided tax services, non-audit services, auditor independence, audit committee, financial expertise, litigation risk

JEL Classification: G38, H25, K22, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bédard, Jean and Paquette, Suzanne M., Audit Committee Financial Expertise, Litigation Risk, and Auditor-Provided Tax Services (July 28, 2020). Forthcoming, Accounting Perspectives, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3702425 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3702425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Does Mandated Disclosure Induce a Structural Change in the Determinants of Nonaudit Service Purchases?
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 51 - 76 Posted: 2011
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Albring , D Robinson , M Robinson
Audit committee financial expertise, corporate governance, and the voluntary switch from auditor-provided to non-auditor-provided tax services
Advances in Accounting , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 94 Posted: 2014
Crossref
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
952
RANK
453,964
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies