Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Power of the Narrative in Corporate Lawmaking

Harvard Public Law Working Paper No. 20-21

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper 554/2020

Harvard Business Law Review, Vol. 11, No. 2, 2021

46 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2020 Last revised: 13 Mar 2025

Mark J. Roe

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Roy Shapira

Stigler Center, University of Chicago Booth School of Business; ECGI; Reichman University

Date Written: August 24, 2020

Abstract


The notion of stock-market-driven short-termism relentlessly whittling away at the American economy’s foundations is widely accepted and highly salient. Presidential candidates state as much. Senators introduce bills assuming as much. Corporate interests argue as much to the Securities and Exchange Commission and the corporate law courts. Yet the academic evidence as to the problem’s severity is no more than mixed. What explains this gap between widespread belief and weak evidence?

This Article explores the role of narrative power. Some ideas are better at being popular than others. The concept of pernicious stock market short-termism has three strong qualities that make its narrative power formidable: (1) connotation — the words themselves tell us what is good (reliable long-term commitment) and what is not (unreliable short-termism); (2) category confusion — disparate types of corporate misbehavior, such as environmental degradation and employee mistreatment, are mislabeled as being truly and primarily short-termism phenomena emanating from truncated corporate time horizons (when they in fact emanate from other misalignments), thereby making us view short-termism as even more rampant and pernicious than it is; and (3) confirmation — the idea is regularly repeated, because it is easy to communicate, and often boosted by powerful agenda-setters who benefit from its repetition.

The Article then highlights the real-world implications of narrative power — powerful narratives can be more certain than the underlying evidence, thereby leading policymakers astray. For example, a favorite remedy for stock-market-driven short-termism is to insulate executives from stock market pressure. If lawmakers believe that short-termism is a primary cause of environmental degradation, anemic research and development, employee mistreatment, and financial crises — as many do — then they are likely to focus on further insulating corporate executives from stock-market accountability. Doing so may, however, do little to alleviate the underlying problems, which would be better handled by, say, stronger environmental regulation and more astute financial regulation. Powerful narratives can drive out good policymaking.


Keywords: corporate governance, short-termism, hedge funds, shareholder activism, behavioral economics, securities regulation, agency costs, research and development, narrative, political economy, corporate interests

JEL Classification: D72, E71, G18, G34, G38, G41, K22, L21

Suggested Citation:

Roe, Mark J. and Shapira, Roy, The Power of the Narrative in Corporate Lawmaking (August 24, 2020). Harvard Public Law Working Paper No. 20-21, European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper 554/2020, Harvard Business Law Review, Vol. 11, No. 2, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3703882 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3703882
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
Kim M Willey , Market Stock , Short-Termism
Others have found a similar increase in Wall Street Journal mentions
AND REFORM , volume 2 Posted: 2019
Steven Rosenblum
Mr. Rosenblum, a prominent attorney, often represents management in contested transactions
Colloquium , volume 697 Posted: 2014
Jamie Dimon , & Warren , E Buffett
Short-Termism Is Harming the Economy
WALL ST. J Posted: 2018-06-06
; Biden , U S Senator Tammy Baldwin
Senators Tammy Baldwin and Jeff Merkley Introduce Legislation To Strengthen Oversight Of Activist Hedge Funds
See also Examining Short-Termism in Financial Markets: Hearing Before the Subcomm. on Econ. Pol'y of the S. Comm. on Banking, Hous., & Urb. Affairs, 111th Cong. 2 (2010) (statement of Sen. Sherrod Brown, Chairman Posted: 2016-03-17
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
940
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,109
RANK
56,977
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies