Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deploying Narrative Economics to Understand Financial Market Dynamics: An Analysis of Activist Short Sellers’ Rhetoric

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2020-1401

81 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2020 Last revised: 24 Nov 2020

Luc Paugam

HEC Paris, Accounting and Management Control Department; CFA Society France

Hervé Stolowy

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Yves Gendron

Université Laval

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 2, 2020

Abstract

We investigate how Activist Short Sellers (AShSs) expose publicly listed firms in an increasingly popular form of “research reports” openly denouncing alleged frauds, flawed business models, accounting irregularities, and wrongdoings. We focus on six AShSs that issued research reports that often led to a strong negative market reaction. Our empirical analysis exploits both qualitative and quantitative methods for a comprehensive dataset of 383 research reports targeting 171 unique firms, and three first-hand interviews with AShSs. Drawing on Aristotle’s rhetoric, we first examine how AShSs use narratives in striving to convince other investors that the target firms are overvalued. Specifically, we search the documents produced by AShSs for stylized narratives related to credibility-based (ethos), emotions-based (pathos), and logic-based (logos) rhetorical strategies. To assess the impact of these strategies, we examine the extent to which the AShSs’ rhetorical strategies resonate in 3,665 press articles. As expected, the press often refers to logos-based arguments. Interestingly, the press also brings up frequently pathos-based and ethos-based statements. Considering the importance of the press in shaping investors’ opinions, our study points to AShSs’ narratives playing a major role in policing financial markets. Theoretically, we show that AShSs, as dissenting market participants, produce narratives that go beyond the language of formal rationality – as they strive to reveal new information and frame it persuasively, in order to destabilize the extent of trustworthiness surrounding target firms.

Keywords: activist short sellers, persuasion, rhetorical strategies, narrative economics, credibility

JEL Classification: G14, G23, G3, M4, P1

Suggested Citation:

Paugam, Luc and Stolowy, Hervé and Gendron, Yves, Deploying Narrative Economics to Understand Financial Market Dynamics: An Analysis of Activist Short Sellers’ Rhetoric (October 2, 2020). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2020-1401, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3703839
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
109 References
A D Abbott
The system of professions Posted: 1988
W Aerts , B Yan
Rhetorical impression management in the letter to shareholders and institutional setting
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 404 - 432 Posted: 2017
Crossref
W S Albrecht , M B Romney , D J Cherrington , I R Payne , A J Roe
How to detect and prevent business fraud Posted: 1982
Rhetoric Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
542
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,147
RANK
117,482
109 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies