Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Sustainability Reporting on Corporate Performance of Quoted Oil and Gas Firms in Nigeria

Journal of Global Accounting, Vol. 6 No. 2 September, 2019. ISSN: 1118-6828

12 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2020

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: September 1, 2019

Abstract

The objective of this study is to determine the effect of sustainability reporting on corporate performance of quoted oil and gas firms in Nigeria. This study adopted time-series and cross-sectional analysis of selected oil and gas firms quoted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange as at 31st December 2017 for a period of seven years spanning from 2011 – 2017. This study made use of Ex-Post Facto research design. Data were gotten from secondary sources obtained from fact books, annual reports and accounts of the studied quoted oil and gas companies in Nigeria as at 31st December, 2017. The relevant data obtained were subjected to statistical analysis using Pearson correlation coefficient and multiple regression analysis via E-View 9.0 statistical software. The results of this study revealed that sustainability reporting (proxied by economic, environmental and social performance indices) has a significant positive effect on return on equity, net profit margin and earnings per share at 5% level of significance. The study recommended amongst others the need to adopt standardized Sustainability Index as this will help in putting pressure on companies to pay more attention to their environment and take much more seriously the issues of sustainable development.

Keywords: Sustainability Reporting, Corporate Performance, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor, Effect of Sustainability Reporting on Corporate Performance of Quoted Oil and Gas Firms in Nigeria (September 1, 2019). Journal of Global Accounting, Vol. 6 No. 2 September, 2019. ISSN: 1118-6828 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3704456
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
M C Abiahu , N N Amahalu
Business combination and key Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
771
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,789
RANK
74,661
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies