Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Board Diversity on Financial Performance of Quoted Natural Resources Firms in Nigeria

18 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2020

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 5, 2018

Abstract

The objective of this study is to ascertain the effect of Board Diversity on Financial Performance of quoted Natural resources companies in Nigeria. The specific objectives are to ascertain the effect or otherwise of Foreign Directory and Board Size on Return on Assets, Return on Equity and Tobin‟s Q of quoted Natural resources companies in Nigeria from 2008 -2017. Ex-post facto research design was used for this study. Secondary data were sourced from the publications of Nigeria Stock Exchange. Inferential statistics of the hypotheses were carried out with the aid of E-view 9.0 statistical software using Co-efficient of correlation and Multivariate Panel Least Square Regression analysis. Findings of this study showed Board Diversity has a significant positive effect on Return on Assets and Tobin‟s Q; a significant negative effect on Returns on Equity at 5% level of significance respectively. It was recommended among others that Natural Resources firms should have a suitable and diverse board size designed so as to guarantee diversity of experience without conceding independence, accountability, compatibility, more knowledge, integrity and enthusiasm of members to attend meetings.

Keywords: Foreign Directory, Tobin‘s Q, Board Size, Return on Assets

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor, Effect of Board Diversity on Financial Performance of Quoted Natural Resources Firms in Nigeria (December 5, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3704480 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3704480
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 5 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C U Agbionu , N N Amahalu , U Egolum
Attitudinal change, power of thought and empowerment: The indisputable nexus. Contemporary Issues in Business Management: A Multidisciplinary Approach , p. 354 - 360 Posted: 2017
N N Amahalu , M F C Abiahu , C L Nweze , J C Obi
Effect of corporate governance on borrowing cost of quoted brewery firms in Nigeria Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
547
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,614
RANK
106,095
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies