Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Firm Characteristics On Environmental Performance of Quoted Industrial Goods Firms in Nigeria

International Journal of Research in Business, Economics and Management, Vol.3 Issue 6 Nov-Dec. 2019

13 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2020

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: November 3, 2019

Abstract

This study was set out to determine the effect of firms’ characteristics on corporate environmental performance of quoted industrial goods firms in Nigeria from 2008-2017. To achieve these objectives, three research questions and hypotheses were raised and related literatures to the study were reviewed. The study adopted the ex-post facto research design. Population of the study is made up of eleven industrial goods firms quoted on the Nigerian stock exchange. Complete enumeration of the population was adopted as the sample size. This study utilized secondary data sourced from annual reports and accounts of the sampled firms for the study period. Inferential statistics of the hypotheses were tested using Pearson correlation coefficient and multiple regression analysis. The result of findings revealed that firm characteristics (proxied by firm size, profitability and firm age) have a significant positive effect on environmental performance (measured by waste management cost) at 5% significant level. The study recommends industrial goods firms should engage more in waste management policies, since such practice significantly improves their financial performance in terms of value added and profitability.

Keywords: Environmental Performance, Firm Characteristics, Profitability

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor, Effect of Firm Characteristics On Environmental Performance of Quoted Industrial Goods Firms in Nigeria (November 3, 2019). International Journal of Research in Business, Economics and Management, Vol.3 Issue 6 Nov-Dec. 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3704453
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
N N Amahalu , P U Egolum , B O Ezechukwu , J C Obi
Inventory management and financial performance: Evidence from brewery firms listed on Nigeria stock exchange
International Journal of Research in Business, Economics and Management , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 72 - 93 Posted: 2018
N N Amahalu , P U Egolum , J C Obi
Effect of e-accounting systems on financial performance of quoted deposit money banks in Nigeria. Faculty of Management Sciences
International Conference Proceedings , p. 437 - 449 Posted: 2019
N N Amahalu , B O Ezechukwu , J C Obi
Corporate social responsibility and financial performance of quoted deposit money banks in Nigeria
Asian Journal of Science and Technology , issue 12 , p. 7183 - 7191 Posted: 2017
N N Amahalu , P V Okoye , J C Obi
Effect of sustainability reporting on economic value added of quoted brewery firms in Nigeria
Journal of Accounting , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
882
RANK
257,340
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies