Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Financial Performance of Quoted Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria

9 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2020

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 6, 2017

Abstract

This study aims at ascertaining how corporate social responsibility (CSR) relates with financial performance of quoted deposit money banks in Nigeria from 2010-2016. Specifically, this study aims to ascertain the extent of relationship that exists between donation and return on assets; determine the extent of relationship that exists between donation and return on equity and to evaluate the extent of relationship between donations and market-to-book value of quoted deposit money banks in Nigeria. This study employed ex-post fact research design. The sample size of this study consists of the fifteen quoted deposit money banks in Nigeria. Pearson Coefficient Correlation, Panel Least Square (PLS) regression analysis and Granger Causality test were employed via E-View 9.0. The study found a significant positive relationship between return on asset, return on equity, market-to-book value and donations at 5% level of significance. The implication of the findings is that CSR implementation maximizes future returns for deposit money banks in Nigeria. It was recommended among others that since CSR has a positive and significant relationship with financial position, deposit money banks should engage in CSR practices as this will guarantee a safer environment for smooth operations and maximisation of shareholders wealth.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Financial Performance, Sustainable Development

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor, Corporate Social Responsibility and Financial Performance of Quoted Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria (December 6, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3704461 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3704461
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
A Abdu
Financial performance and corporate social responsibility of listed deposit money banks in Nigeria. Reputation and Deep Pockets Hypotheses
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 26 , p. 1 - 48 Posted: 2014
Abdulazeez
Corporate governance and financial performance of listed deposit money banks in Nigeria
Journal of Accounting and Marketing , p. 2 - 6 Posted: 2016
O D Adeyanju
An assessment of the impact of corporate social responsibility on Nigerian society: The examples of banking and communication industries
Universal Journal of Marketing and Business Research , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 43 Posted: 2012
Folounsho M Ajide , Adetunji A Aderemi
The effects of corporate social responsibility activity disclosure on corporate profitability: Emperical evidence from Nigerian banks
Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 2 , issue 6 , p. 17 - 25 Posted: 2014
Load more
10 Citations
Eke Promise , Fente Fortune Ataisi , Odukwu Victory Chika
Effect of Employee Health and Safety Cost on Profitability of Listed Oil and Gas Companies in Nigeria
Journal of Social Responsibility,Tourism and Hospitality , issue 42 , p. 35 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Bridget Aladi Lawani , James Tersoo Tsetim
Effect of Financial Leverage on Financial Performance of Listed Consumer Goods Firms in Nigeria
Journal of Production, Operations Management and Economics , issue 36 , p. 29 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Yudhvir Singh , Ram Milan
Analysis of Financial Performance of Public Sector Banks in India: CAMEL
Arthaniti: Journal of Economic Theory and Practice , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 86 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Zehra HABERAL
Yüksek enflasyon koşullarının mevduat bankalarında kredi/mevduat oranı ve nakit akışlarına etkisinin araştırılması
Hitit Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 563 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
643
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,641
RANK
75,578
10 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies