Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stakeholder Friction

37 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2020

Kirsten Martin

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business - IT, Analytics, and Operations Department

Robert A. Phillips

York University - Schulich School of Business

Date Written: October 4, 2020

Abstract

A mainstay of stakeholder management is the belief that firms create value when they invest more time, money, and attention to stakeholders than is necessary for the immediate transaction. This tendency to repeat interactions with the same set of stakeholders fosters what we call stakeholder friction. Stakeholder friction is a term for the collection of social, legal, and economic forces leading firms to prioritize and reinvest in current stakeholders. For many stakeholder scholars, such friction is close to universally beneficial, but the associated costs – to both the firm and legitimate stakeholders – have been underspecified. Failure to account for the effects of stakeholder friction can cause managers to under-allocate attention and value to some legitimate stakeholders and to over-allocate attention and value to current stakeholders. We examine the concept of stakeholder friction and elaborate on three exemplar sources of friction prominent in the stakeholder literature. This is followed by an analysis of investments in stakeholder relationships and a consideration of the implications of stakeholder friction on the ability of firms to prioritize stakeholders. The tendency to reinvest in current stakeholders has, in addition to the oft-discussed benefits, a predictable downside.

Suggested Citation:

Martin, Kirsten and Phillips, Robert A., Stakeholder Friction (October 4, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3704947 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3704947
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
S Albert , D Whetten
Organizational identity. Research in Organizational Behavior , volume 7 , p. 263 - 295 Posted: 1985
D Arenas , M Murphy , K Jáuregui , Forthcoming
Community influence capacity on firms: Lessons from the Peruvian highlands
Organization Studies
Crossref
K Arrow
Information and Economic Behavior, Federation of Swedish Industries Posted: 1973
C C Asher , J M Mahoney , J T Mahoney
Towards a property rights foundation for a stakeholder theory of the firm
Journal of Management & Governance , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 32 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,237
RANK
472,791
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies