Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Discretion to Delay the Recognition of Goodwill Impairment: The Role of Enforcement

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Volume 48, Issue 1-2, pp. 26-69, 2021

HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2020-1400

55 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2020 Last revised: 1 Mar 2021

Andrei Filip

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Luc Paugam

HEC Paris, Accounting and Management Control Department; CFA Society France

Date Written: October 3, 2020

Abstract

Under IFRS, managers can use two approaches to increase the estimated fair value of goodwill in order to justify not recognizing impairment: (1) make overly optimistic valuation assumptions, and (2) increase future cash flow forecasts by inflating current cash flows. Because enforcement constrains the use of optimistic valuation assumptions, we hypothesize that enforcement influences the relative use of these two choices. We test this hypothesis by comparing a sample of 1,958 firms from 36 countries that are likely to delay recognizing goodwill impairment (suspect firms) to a sample of control firms. First, we find that firms in high enforcement countries use a higher discount rate to test goodwill for impairment than firms in low enforcement countries. We also find a more positive association between discount rate and upward cash flow management for suspect firms than for control firms. This result is consistent with suspect firms substituting optimistic valuation assumptions with inflated current cash flows. Second, we find that, relative to control firms, suspect firms exhibit higher upward cash flow management in high enforcement countries than in low enforcement countries. Third, we show that suspect firms in high enforcement countries are more likely to eventually impair goodwill.

Keywords: Goodwill impairment, enforcement, cash flow management, valuation assumptions

JEL Classification: M41, G34

Suggested Citation:

Filip, Andrei and Lobo, Gerald J. and Paugam, Luc, Managerial Discretion to Delay the Recognition of Goodwill Impairment: The Role of Enforcement (October 3, 2020). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Volume 48, Issue 1-2, pp. 26-69, 2021, HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2020-1400, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3704191 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3704191
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
S Ahn , Y Cheon , M Kim
Determinants of initial goodwill overstatement in affiliated and non-affiliated mergers
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 47 , p. 587 - 614 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Amf
Décision de la commission des sanctions à l'égard de la société x et du cabinet y. Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) Posted: 2010-05-20
H Amiraslani , G E Latridis , P Pope
Accounting for asset impairment: A test for IFRS compliance across Europe. A research report by the centre for Financial Analysis and Reporting Research , volume 68 Posted: 2013
P André , A Filip , L Paugam
Effect of mandatory IFRS adoption on conditional conservatism in Europe
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 42 , p. 482 - 514 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,731
RANK
297,230
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies