Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Features and Earnings Management in Iran

Posted: 20 Nov 2020

Farzaneh Nassir Zadeh

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad (FUM)

Mahdi Faghani

University Of Sistan and Baluchestan

Ali Shirzad

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad (FUM)

Date Written: October 3, 2020

Abstract

This study aimed to investigate the relationship between audit committee features and the types of earnings management in Iran.The study population consists of 550 observation and 110 firms listed on the Tehran Stock Exchange during a five-year period between 2014 and 2018. The statistical model used in this study is a multivariate regression model; further, the statistical technique used to test the hypotheses is panel data.The results indicated that there was a significant relationship between the financial expertise of the audit committee members and the size of the audit committee with the accrual earnings management while there was no significant relationship between any of the audit committee features and real-based earnings management. In addition, it was found that there was no significant relationship between the audit committee’s independence members and accrual earnings management. This is one of the most comprehensive research works in Iran that simultaneously surveys the impacts of audit committee features on earnings management. This research warns investors and stakeholders to pay more attention to the importance of audit committee features to limit the opportunities of earnings management. Surely, by understanding the relationship between audit committee features and earnings management, investors and stockholders will be able to make appropriate decisions about the optimal choice of funds. This paper illustrates the effect of audit committee characteristics on audit committee performance in limiting earnings management opportunities. In addition to, the period of the study will fascinate other scholars about this paper because there were unprecedented sanctions against Iran market and many manufacturing industries were in financial distress. The paper will make aware investors and stakeholders of this fact that existence of a powerful and expert audit committee will be a good way in reducing the earnings management problems in emerging markets, particularly those markets face financial sanctions like Iran.

Keywords: Audit Committee Features, Audit Committee Size, Audit Committee Expertise, Audit Committee’s Independence, Earnings Management

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Nassir Zadeh, Farzaneh and Faghani, Mahdi and Shirzad, Ali, Audit Committee Features and Earnings Management in Iran (October 3, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3704210 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3704210
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
574
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies