Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Firm Characteristics on Capital Structure of Deposit Money Banks Listed on Nigeria Stock

International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences Vol. 9, No.2, April 2019, pp. 198–210

14 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2020

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: april 2, 2019

Abstract

This study sought to ascertain the effect of Firm Characteristics on Capital Structure of Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) listed on Nigeria Stock Exchange using a sample of fifteen (15) DMBs from 2008-2017. Ex-Post Facto research design was employed while secondary data were collected and subjected to multiple regression and correlation analysis in order to achieve the study objectives. A firm characteristic, which is the independent variables, was measured by size and asset tangibility, while capital structure, which is the dependent variable, was measured by Debt-Capital ratio, Debt-Asset ratio and Debt-Common Equity ratio. Results of this study suggested that Firm Characteristics have a significant negative effect on Debt-Capital ratio; Firm Characteristics have a significant positive effect on Debt-Asset ratio; Firm Characteristics have a non-significant positive effect on Debt-Common Equity ratio. This implies that, the two variables have a strong positive effect on the capital structure of DMBs. Overall; the implications of the findings of this study support both the trade-off theory and the pecking order theory of capital structure. This study recommended that, management of DMBs need to embrace innovation as a way of increasing the efficiency of the assets. Increased efficiency of assets is critical to maximizing the profitability of the firms, which consequently reduces the negative impact arising from the cost of debt (financing costs). Additionally, finance managers are advised to adopt a residual dividend policy while at the same time, emphasizing on cost-effectiveness.

Keywords: Tangibility, Firm Size, Debt-Capital Ratio, Debt-Asset Ratio, Debt-Common Equity Ratio

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor, Effect of Firm Characteristics on Capital Structure of Deposit Money Banks Listed on Nigeria Stock (april 2, 2019). International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences Vol. 9, No.2, April 2019, pp. 198–210, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3704302
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
N N Amahalu , P U Egolum , J C Obi
Effect of e-accounting systems on financial performance of quoted deposit money banks in Nigeria. Faculty of Management Sciences Posted: 2019
International Conference Proceedings , p. 437 - 449
Crossref
N N Amahalu , P U Egolum , J C Obi
Effect of auditors' rotation on audit quality of quoted deposit money banks in Nigeria. Faculty of Management Sciences
International Conference Proceedings , p. 467 - 479 Posted: 2019
N N Amahalu , U P Egolum , C L Nweze , J C Obi
Capital structure determinants: Empirical evidence from quoted deposit money banks in Nigeria
International Journal of Research in Business, Economics and Management , volume 2 , issue 4 , p. 70 - 85 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
259
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,069
RANK
269,796
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies