Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholding Structure and Value Creation in Central Eastern Europe

34 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2020

Péter Harbula

Independent

Adam Kerekes

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 4, 2020

Abstract

This article aims to analyze the interaction between shareholding structure and value creation in the transition economies of Central Eastern Europe. Our study set out to verify several assumptions on the relationship between ownership and performance in Central Eastern Europe.

Using a data sample of listed companies over a period of 20 years, we analyze the value creation as measured by the share price versus a cross section analysis of return against multiple factors, including but not limited to shareholding structures. We use exclusively listed in the regional stock exchanges and analyze this with the specific ownership structure that resulted in such transition economies.

We have found that a major, private shareholder led companies and diffused ownership companies significantly outperform the sample average whether in terms of total shareholder returns or other metrics. We have also observed that state led companies underperform peers with another shareholding structure or the sample average. More generically, whenever the State plays a significant role in the shareholding structure (which we consider a proxy for a direct or indirect management role or influence), the performance seems to be below that sample average.

Keywords: Value Creation, Corporate Governance, CEE, Shareholding Structure, State Owned Firms

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Harbula, Péter and Kerekes, Adam, Shareholding Structure and Value Creation in Central Eastern Europe (October 4, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3704986 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3704986
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
674
RANK
658,366
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies