Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Environmental Cost Disclosure on Profitability of Listed Oil and Gas Firms in Nigeria

International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences Vol. 10, No. 2, April 2020, pp. 157–170

14 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2020

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: April 3, 2020

Abstract

The objective of this study was to ascertain the effect of environmental cost disclosure on profitability of oil and gas firms listed on Nigeria Stock Exchange between 2010 and 2019. Eleven (11) listed oil and gas firms were purposively sampled. The proxies for environmental cost disclosure include waste management cost disclosure, employee health and safety cost disclosure and environmental remediation cost, while net profit margin was employed as profitability measure. Content analysis was employed while Pearson Correlation Coefficient and Panel Least Square (PLS) Regression analysis via STATA 13 statistical software were used to test the hypotheses of the study. The result of this study showed that waste management cost disclosure, employee health and safety cost disclosure and environmental remediation cost disclosure have a significant positive effect on net profit margin at 5% level of significance respectively. This study therefore recommends inter alia that since environmental cost is value relevant in making strategic business decision. Thus, oil and gas firms should constantly reposition their accounting system in order to provide information on environmental cost so that the true costs in an organization can be ascertained and properly allocated.

Keywords: Environmental Cost, Profitability, Remediation Cost

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor, Effect of Environmental Cost Disclosure on Profitability of Listed Oil and Gas Firms in Nigeria (April 3, 2020). International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences Vol. 10, No. 2, April 2020, pp. 157–170, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3704487
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
G Abrate , F Erbetta , G Fraquelli , D Vannoni
The costs of disposal and recycling: An application to Italian municipal solid waste services
Regional Studies , volume 48 , issue 5 , p. 896 - 909 Posted: 2014
Crossref
B O Agbo , O K Ohaegbu , F Akubuilo
The effect of environmental cost on financial performance of Nigerian brewery
European Journal of Business and Management , volume 9 , issue 17 , p. 59 - 64 Posted: 2017
N N Amahalu , U C Agbionu , C J Obi
Effect of human resource accounting on profitability of selected quoted telecommunication firms in Nigeria
Contemporary Issues in Business Management: A Multidisciplinary Approach , p. 410 - 443 Posted: 2017
N N Amahalu , P U Egolum , J C Obi , R O Iliemena
Corporate governance and organizational profitability: Empirical evidence from quoted natural resources firms in Nigeria. Managing diversification for sustainable development in sub-saharan Africa, Faculty of Management Sciences
International Conference , p. 8 - 10 Posted: 2016-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
699
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,752
RANK
84,763
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies