Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Momentum and Bank Loan Quality

48 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2020

Shuping Chen

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

John M. McInnis

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Christopher G. Yust

Texas A&M University

Date Written: October 5, 2020

Abstract

In the aftermath of the financial crisis, bankers, regulators, lawmakers, and others claimed that bank CEOs’ incentives to sustain high past earnings growth (earnings momentum) led banks to originate lower quality loans, which subsequently defaulted at high rates in the financial crisis. We examine this claim. Using a sample of 267 U.S. bank holding companies from 2001 to 2009, we find banks with high earnings momentum have more future non-performing loans (NPLs). In contrast, neither CEO compensation incentives nor benchmark beating metrics are associated with future NPLs. Consistent with career concerns, the effect of earnings momentum on future NPLs is concentrated in banks with younger CEOs. We also find earnings momentum is positively associated with bank failures. Further analyses show results are independent of competition pressures and earnings guidance. Our study contributes to the literature on factors associated with the dramatic collapse of the banking system during the financial crisis.

Keywords: banks, earnings growth momentum, financial crisis, loan defaults, bank failures, compensation incentives, benchmark beating

JEL Classification: G01, G18, G21, G38, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Shuping and McInnis, John M. and Yust, Christopher, Earnings Momentum and Bank Loan Quality (October 5, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3705677 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3705677
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
B W Cantrell , J M Mcinnis , C G Yust
Predicting credit losses: Loan fair values vs. historical costs
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 1 , p. 147 - 176 Posted: 2014
Crossref
B Cheung
Bank of America CEO: Bank regulators need to get 'calibrations right'. Yahoo! Finance Posted: 2020-01
B Cheung
Former FDIC Chair: Warren is 'best candidate' on bank regulation Posted: 2020
January
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
913
RANK
588,270
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies