Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nudging Toward Diversity in the Boardroom: A Systematic Literature Review of Board Diversity of Financial Institutions

Business Strategy and the Environment, 30(2), 985-1002.

38 Pages Posted: 25 Nov 2020 Last revised: 14 Feb 2021

Saleh F. A. Khatib

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

DF Abdullah

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Raed Abueid

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 6, 2020

Abstract

Going beyond the mere gender diversity in the boardroom, this systematic review comprehensively covers the research on board diversity of financial institutions. More specifically, we cover gender diversity, as well as other characteristics of diversity, such as nationality, age, tenure, experience, education, ethnicity, and religion. A systematic literature review was employed using Scopus and Web of Science databases, covering all publications until May 2020, which resulted in 91 studies from 66 top-ranked journals in accounting, finance and economic fields. We analyze them based on the journal, methodology, research construct questions, and theoretical perspectives. Our results highlight the substantial knowledge gaps and the inconsistent findings of prior studies on several aspects of the field, suggesting avenues for further studies in terms of research designs, settings, scope, and theories. We argue that there is a need to explore other board diversity attributes rather than focusing on the gender diversity of the boards of financial institutions to achieve sustainable development. Also, more work is outlined on topics related to board diversity of financial firms that receive limited attention from scholars, such as (but not limited to) environmental performance, capital structure, intellectual capital, innovation and earnings quality of financial institutions as well as the indirect effect of policy settings.

Keywords: systematic literature review, board diversity, firm performance, gender diversity, corporate social responsibility, environmental management, corporate governance, sustainable development

Suggested Citation:

Khatib, Saleh F. A. and Abdullah, Dewi Fariha and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Abueid, Raed, Nudging Toward Diversity in the Boardroom: A Systematic Literature Review of Board Diversity of Financial Institutions (October 6, 2020). Business Strategy and the Environment, 30(2), 985-1002., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3706162 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3706162
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
110 References
T Abdelfattah , M Elmahgoub , A A Elamer
Female Audit Partners and Extended Audit Reporting: UK Evidence
Journal of Business Ethics , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2020
Crossref
H Abou-El-Sood
Corporate governance and risk taking: the role of board gender diversity
Pacific Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 19 - 42 Posted: 2019
Crossref
David Adeabah , Agyapomaa Gyeke-Dako , Charles Andoh
Board Gender Diversity, Corporate Governance and Bank Efficiency in Ghana: A Two-Stage Data Envelope Analysis (DEA) Approach
Corporate Governance, Forthcoming Pages: 27 Posted: 15 Jan 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A D Adesanmi , O A Sanyaolu , M A Isiaka , O A Fadipe
Empirical analysis of board diversity and the financial performance deposit money banks in
Nigeria. Accounting , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 127 - 134 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,603
RANK
322,813
31 Citations
110 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies