Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gaining, Maintaining and Repairing Organizational Legitimacy: When to Report and When Not to Report

Kuruppu, S.C., Milne, M.J. and Tilt, C.A. (2019), "Gaining, maintaining and repairing organisational legitimacy: When to report and when not to report", Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Vol. 32 No. 7, pp. 2062-2087. https://doi.org/10.1108/AAAJ-03-2013-1282

27 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2020

Sanjaya Kuruppu

University of South Australia

Markus J. Milne

University of Canterbury - Department of Accountancy Finance and Information Systems

Carol Tilt

University of South Australia

Date Written: September 16, 2019

Abstract

Purpose: The purpose of this paper is to examine how legitimacy is gained, maintained or repaired through direct action with salient stakeholders and/or through external reporting, by using a number of empirical case vignettes within a single case study organization.

Design/methodology/approach: The study investigates a foreign affiliate of a large multinational organization involved in an environmentally sensitive industry. Data collection included semi-structured interviews with 26 participants, organizational reports and participation in the organization’s annual environmental management seminar and a stakeholder engagement meeting.

Findings: Four vignettes featuring environmental issues illustrate the complexity of organizational responses. Issue visibility, stakeholder salience and stakeholder interconnectedness influence a company’s action to manage legitimacy. In the short-term, environmental issues which affected salient stakeholders resulted in swift and direct action to protect pragmatic legitimacy, but external reporting did not feature in legitimacy management efforts. Highly visible issues to the public, regulators and the media, however, resulted in direct action together with external reporting to manage wider stakeholder perceptions. External reporting was used superficially, along with a broad suite of communication strategies, to gain legitimacy in the long-term decision about the company’s future in New Zealand.

Research limitations/implications: This paper outlines how episodic encounters to manage strategic legitimacy with salient stakeholders in the short-term are theoretically distinct, but nonetheless linked to continual efforts to maintain institutional legitimacy. Case vignettes highlight how pragmatic legitimacy via dispositional legitimacy can be managed with direct action in the short-term to influence a limited range of salient stakeholders. The way external reporting features in legitimacy management is limited, although this has predominantly been the focus of prior research. Only where an environmental incident damages legitimacy to a larger number of stakeholders is external reporting also used to buttress community support.

Originality/value: The concept of legitimacy is comprehensively applied, linking the strategic and institutional arms of legitimacy and illustrating how episodic actions are taken to manage legitimacy in the short-term with continual efforts to manage legitimacy in the long-term. Stakeholder salience and networks are brought in as novel theoretical extensions to provide a deeper understanding of the interrelationships between these key concepts with a unique case study.

Keywords: case study, sustainability reporting, legitimacy theory, stakeholder salience, direct action

Suggested Citation:

Kuruppu, Sanjaya and Milne, Markus J. and Tilt, Carol, Gaining, Maintaining and Repairing Organizational Legitimacy: When to Report and When Not to Report (September 16, 2019). Kuruppu, S.C., Milne, M.J. and Tilt, C.A. (2019), "Gaining, maintaining and repairing organisational legitimacy: When to report and when not to report", Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Vol. 32 No. 7, pp. 2062-2087. https://doi.org/10.1108/AAAJ-03-2013-1282 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3707253
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
628
RANK
692,403
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies