Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Trading in Firms Rumored to be Takeover Targets

Davis, F., Khadivar, H., & Walker, T. J. (2021). Institutional trading in firms rumored to be takeover targets. Journal of Corporate Finance, 66, 101797.

76 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2020 Last revised: 28 Nov 2022

Frederick James Davis

Concordia University

Hamed Khadivar

Department of Finance, Université du Québec à Montréal

Thomas John Walker

Concordia University, Quebec - Department of Finance

Date Written: November 18, 2020

Abstract

In this paper we examine institutional trading in proximity to takeover rumors by combining the ANcerno dataset of transaction-level institutional trades with a unique sample of takeover rumor ‘scoops’. We find that institutions are net buyers in firms which subsequently become subject to takeover speculation and that institutional trading predicts which rumored firms will eventually receive takeover bids. Segregating funds according to their propensity to trade, we show that those less likely to purchase rumored targets by chance over the pre-rumor period are more likely to identify firms which will receive bid proposals and that they trade more profitably over both the pre- and post-rumor periods. We test for the presence of informed trading in a variety of ways and conclude that institutional investors appear to trade on material private information which identifies the firms soon to be the target of takeover speculation.

Keywords: Institutional trading, Takeover rumors, Rumored targets, Takeover announcements, Mergers and acquisitions

JEL Classification: G14, G23, G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Davis, Frederick James and Khadivar, Hamed and Walker, Thomas John, Institutional Trading in Firms Rumored to be Takeover Targets (November 18, 2020). Davis, F., Khadivar, H., & Walker, T. J. (2021). Institutional trading in firms rumored to be takeover targets. Journal of Corporate Finance, 66, 101797., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3707240
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
116 References
R M Adelson
Compound Poisson distributions
Journal of the Operational Research Society , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 75 Posted: 1966
A Agrawal , T Cooper
Insider trading before accounting scandals
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 34 , issue C , p. 169 - 190 Posted: 2015
K R Ahern , D Sosyura
Rumor has it: Sensationalism in financial media
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 7 , p. 2050 - 2093 Posted: 2015
A Anand , P Irvine , A Puckett , K Venkataraman
Performance of institutional trading desks: An analysis of persistence in trading costs
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 557 - 598 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
826
RANK
538,134
116 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies