Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital structure, Employees' wage and Compensation of the Board of Directors in Iran

Posted: 15 Dec 2020

Majid Ansari

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad (FUM)

Behzad Kardan

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad (FUM)

Mahdi Salehi

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad

Ali Shirzad

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad (FUM)

Date Written: October 10, 2020

Abstract

The main purpose of this study is to investigate the relationship between capital structure and Employees' wage costs and compensation of the board of directors in Iran. The paper sample consists of 968 observation and 121 firms listed on the Tehran Stock Exchange during 2011-2018. The statistical model used in this study is a multivariate regression model; further, the statistical technique used to test the hypotheses is panel data. The results indicate there is a significant and positive relationship between the financial leverage (calculated to the market value and book value) and the compensation of the board of directors in current and previous year. On the other hand, there is no relationship between the financial leverage and the cost wages. The results also showed that there is a significant negative relationship between employee wages and board compensation. What really sets this paper apart from other studies is that this research will make aware investors and stakeholders of this fact that in some countries like Iran that facing with inflation and we should consider this factor in our analysis. In this research capital structure calculated according book value and market value. In addition, it is the first research that calculated relationship between capital structure, employees' wage and compensation of the board of directors. Undeniably, the study results will complete the knowledge gap between the developed economies and the emerging markets.

Keywords: Financial Leverage, Wage, Capital Structure, Board Compensation

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Ansari, Majid and Kardan, Behzad and Salehi, Mahdi and Shirzad, Ali, Capital structure, Employees' wage and Compensation of the Board of Directors in Iran (October 10, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3708984 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3708984
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
461
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies