Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Total Quality Management (TQM), Management Accounting System, Islamic Leadership Style, Organizational Commitment, and Managerial Performance

Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Indrasari, A; Rosi, J.C.A. 2020. Total Quality Management (TQM), Management Accounting System, Islamic Leadership Style, Organizational Commitment, and Managerial Performance, Acc. Fin. Review 5 (2): 66 – 86. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2020.5.2(

21 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2021

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Arum Indrasari

Economic and Business Faculty, Muhammadiyah Yogyakarta University, Indonesia

Justika Citra Apriliana Rosi

Economic and Business Faculty, Muhammadiyah Yogyakarta University, Indonesia

Date Written: September 30, 2020

Abstract


Objective - This paper aims to examine the association of total quality management (TQM), management accounting system, Islamic leadership style, organizational commitment, and managerial performance.

Methodology/Technique - The authors use distributed and collected examination methods employing a purposive sampling techniques. The subject of this study was managers or someone who holds structural position at Islamic based private universities in Yogyakarta with a total number of respondents of 104. The data was obtained from questionnaires. The analytical method used was simple regression analysis and moderated regression analysis.

Finding - The results show that that Total Quality Management (TQM) has a positive significant effect on Managerial Performance. Thereafter, the results of the moderated regression analysis, the Performance Measurement System, Reward System, Islamic Leadership Style, and Organizational Commitment are the moderating variable that moderate or strengthen the relationship between Total Quality Management (TQM) towards Managerial Performance.

Originality/value - Previous studies have focussed mainly on Islamic based private universities in Yogyakarta. This study examines the effect of management accounting system, Islamic leadership style, and organizational commitment on the association of total quality management and managerial performance, which has been rarely examined in previous studies.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Islamic Leadership Style; Organizational Commitment; Performance Measurement System; Rewards System; Total Quality Management.

JEL Classification: M41, M49.

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Indrasari, Arum and Rosi, Justika Citra Apriliana, Total Quality Management (TQM), Management Accounting System, Islamic Leadership Style, Organizational Commitment, and Managerial Performance (September 30, 2020). Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Indrasari, A; Rosi, J.C.A. 2020. Total Quality Management (TQM), Management Accounting System, Islamic Leadership Style, Organizational Commitment, and Managerial Performance, Acc. Fin. Review 5 (2): 66 – 86. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2020.5.2(, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3708130
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
V Diyanto , R A S Surya , M Afif
Effect of Total Quality Management on Managerial Performance with Performance Measurement Systems and Reward Systems as Moderating Variables at PT
Doctoral Acc. Fin. Review , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 66 - 86 Posted: 2015
H S Al-Dhaafri , A Al-Swidi , T Van Der Wiele
The impact of total quality management and entrepreneurial orientation on organizational performance
International Journal of Quality & Reliability Management Posted: 2016
Crossref
M Heriyanto , S Alhudri
Effect of Application of Total Quality Management (TQM) on Employee Performance at PT. PLN (Persero) Branch of Bangkinang (Doctoral dissertation Posted: 2015
E Savitri , A Andreas , Z Azmi
The Influence of Total Quality Management, Performance Measurement Systems, Reward Systems on Managerial Performance (Empirical Study of Insurance Companies in Pekanbaru) (Doctoral dissertation Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,101
RANK
297,230
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies