Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are CEO Overconfidence and Audit Firm Size Related to Tax Avoidance?

Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Sutrisno, P; Pirzada, K. 2020. Are CEO Overconfidence and Audit Firm Size Related To Tax Avoidance?, Acc. Fin. Review 5(2): 56 – 65. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2020.5.2(3)

10 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2021

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Paulina Sutrisno

Trisakti School of Management

Kashan Pirzada

Asian Research Institute for Corporate Governance (ARICG) and Tunku Puteri Intan Safinaz School of Accountancy, Universiti Utara Malaysia, Sintok, Malaysia

Date Written: September 30, 2020

Abstract

Objective - This study aims to examine whether audit firm size mitigates the relationship between CEO overconfidence and tax avoidance. CEO overconfidence has the characteristics of a very high level of self-confidence which influences the pattern of thought and the way they make strategic decisions. CEO overconfidence has a tendency to avoid taxes. It aims to show competence in tax management and raise funds for investment. External party oversight, such as by audit firms, will mitigate the relationship between CEO overconfidence and tax avoidance through an attitude of independence, as well as competence and function as examiners of the company's financial reporting.

Methodology/Technique - This study uses a sample of Indonesian non-financial companies in the period 2013-2017. This study analyses the data with statistical methods using linear multiple regression.

Finding - The results of this study indicate that CEO overconfidence is positively related to tax avoidance, while audit firm size is negatively related to tax avoidance. However, this study has not been able to prove the influence of audit firm size on the relationship between CEO overconfidence and tax avoidance.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: CEO overconfidence; Tax Avoidance; Audit Firm Size; Big 4; Book Tax Difference.

JEL Classification: M41, M49.

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Sutrisno, Paulina and Pirzada, Kashan, Are CEO Overconfidence and Audit Firm Size Related to Tax Avoidance? (September 30, 2020). Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Sutrisno, P; Pirzada, K. 2020. Are CEO Overconfidence and Audit Firm Size Related To Tax Avoidance?, Acc. Fin. Review 5(2): 56 – 65. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2020.5.2(3), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3708090
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Ataullah , A Vivian , B Xu
Time-varying managerial overconfidence and corporate debt maturity structure
The European Journal of Finance , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 157 - 181 Posted: 2018
Crossref
B C Ayers , J K Seidman , E Towery
Taxpayer behavior under audit certainty. Available at SSRN 2609134 Posted: 2017
M Bertrand , A Schoar
Managing with style: The effect of managers on firm policies
The Quarterly journal of economics , volume 118 , issue 4 , p. 1169 - 1208 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
468
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,234
RANK
140,484
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies