Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Online Appendix for Black, de Carvalho, Kim, and Yurtoglu 'How Useful are Commercial Corporate Governance Ratings? Evidence from Emerging Markets'

Black, De Carvalho, Kim, and Yurtoglu, How Useful are Commercial Corporate Governance Ratings: Evidence from Emerging Markets?; Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

Posted: 10 Feb 2023

Bernard S. Black

Northwestern University - Pritzker School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Antonio Gledson De Carvalho

Fundacao Getulio Vargas School of Business at Sao Paulo

Woochan Kim

Korea University Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Asian Institute of Corporate Governance (AICG)

B. Burcin Yurtoglu

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: December 12, 2022

Abstract

A central issue in evaluating the effects of firm-level corporate governance (FLCG) is how to measure it. We focus here on emerging markets (EMs). One common approach to measuring FLCG uses country-specific (CSIs), tailored to each country’s laws and institutions. Several studies report that CSIs can predict firm outcomes in a panel data framework with two-way (firm and time) fixed effects (TWFE). An alternate approach uses commercial CG ratings (CCGRs) that apply the same or similar elements across many countries. We assess the three best available CCGRs covering EMs (Asset4, Thomson Reuters, and MSCI), and find that they do not predict firm outcomes with TWFE in EMs. We also provide evidence that the likely cause for CCGRs’ lack of performance is their poor construction rather than the inability of FLCG measures to predict outcomes. CSI-based studies suggest that disclosure (beyond country-mandated minimums) is the FLCG aspect that most consistently predicts firm outcomes in EMs. Yet, these CCGRs have no or minimal measures of disclosure. Other important limitations of the CCGRs include the use of elements that are U.S.-centric; reflect firm outcomes rather than CG; are implausible measures of good FLCG, or are vaguely or subjectively defined. We also attempt, but fail, to use element-level information from CCGRs to construct sound measures of FLCG.

Note: This Online Appendix contains additional results for Black, De Carvalho, Kim, and Yurtoglu, How Useful are Commercial Corporate Governance Ratings: Evidence from Emerging Markets? (forthcoming, Journal of Corporate Finance 2023), at http://ssrn.com/abstract=3225888

Keywords: Brazil, Korea, India, Turkey, Corporate Governance, Boards of Directors, Disclosure, Shareholder Rights

JEL Classification: G18, G30, G34, G39, K22, K29

Suggested Citation:

Black, Bernard S. and De Carvalho, Antonio Gledson and Kim, Woochan and Yurtoglu, B. Burcin, Online Appendix for Black, de Carvalho, Kim, and Yurtoglu 'How Useful are Commercial Corporate Governance Ratings? Evidence from Emerging Markets' (December 12, 2022). Black, De Carvalho, Kim, and Yurtoglu, How Useful are Commercial Corporate Governance Ratings: Evidence from Emerging Markets?; Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3709531
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
391
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies