Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Corporate Governance Mechanisms, Corporate Strategy and Corporate Financial Characteristics Related to Earnings Management?

Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Tonay, C; Sutrisno, P. 2020. Are Corporate Governance Mechanisms, Corporate Strategy and Corporate Financial Characteristics Related to Earnings Management? J. Fin. Bank. Review, 5 (2): 48 – 57 https://doi.org/10.35609/jfbr.2020.5.2(2)

10 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2021

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Clarissa Tonay

Accounting, Trisakti School of Management, Indonesia

Paulina Sutrisno

Trisakti School of Management

Date Written: September 30, 2020

Abstract

Objective - This study aims to examine the effect of corporate governance and several factors of corporate financial characteristics on earnings management. Corporate governance mechanisms such as an independent board, board size, and audit committee size are expected to be able to limit the ability of management to carry out earnings management. Meanwhile, a company's financial characteristics such as corporate strategy, company age, operating cash flow, company growth, profitability, company size and leverage are predicted to affect earnings management.

Methodology – Many previous studies have involved the examination of corporate governance mechanisms and corporate financial characteristics of earnings management however, the results of those studies give rise to inconsistencies. Hence, this study seeks to re-examine the existence of corporate governance mechanisms and corporate financial characteristics of earnings management. The sample in this research is non-financial companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange between 2016 and 2018.

Findings – This data in this study is analysed using statistical methods such as multiple regression linear. The results of this study indicate that one mechanism of corporate governance, the size of the audit committee, has a positive effect on earnings management, while the financial characteristics of companies such as company size and operating cash flow negatively affect earnings management.

Novelty – Other corporate financial characteristics such as corporate strategy, company age, operating cash flow and profitability have a positive effect on earnings management. Meanwhile, the other variables such as board size, leverage and company growth do not have an influence on earnings management.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Earnings Management; Corporate Strategy; Audit Committee Size; Company Age; Operating Cash Flows.

JEL Classification: G3, G34, G39.

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Tonay, Clarissa and Sutrisno, Paulina, Are Corporate Governance Mechanisms, Corporate Strategy and Corporate Financial Characteristics Related to Earnings Management? (September 30, 2020). Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Tonay, C; Sutrisno, P. 2020. Are Corporate Governance Mechanisms, Corporate Strategy and Corporate Financial Characteristics Related to Earnings Management? J. Fin. Bank. Review, 5 (2): 48 – 57 https://doi.org/10.35609/jfbr.2020.5.2(2), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3709772
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
M A Abata , S O Migiro
Corporate governance and management of earnings: empirical evidence from selected Nigerian-listed companies
Journal of Economics and Behavioural Studies , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 54 - 74 Posted: 2016
Crossref
N Alexander
Factors affecting earnings management in the Indonesian Stock Exchange
Journal of Finance and Banking Review , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 8 - 14 Posted: 2017
E S S Alzoubi
Ownership structure and earnings management: evidence from Jordan
International Journal of Accounting & Information Management Posted: 2016
Crossref
M Aygun , S Ic , M Sayim
The effects of corporate ownership structure and board size on earnings management: Evidence from Turkey
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 9 , issue 12 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
577
RANK
568,026
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies