Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Divestitures around Acquisitions

Proceedings of Paris December 2020 Finance Meeting EUROFIDAI - ESSEC

51 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2020 Last revised: 8 Jan 2022

Nihat Aktas

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Aleksandra Baros

Alma Mater Studiorum University of Bologna; Catholic University of Milan

Ettore Croci

Catholic University of the Sacred Heart of Milan

Date Written: January 5, 2022

Abstract

Divestitures often accompany acquisitions. Relying on a global sample, we provide support for the efficient restructuring view of acquisition-related divestitures. These divestitures add on average 2% to the total value creation of the acquisition process, translating into a value increase of $149 million. We test various efficiency channels potentially explaining this value contribution. The results indicate that the value contribution varies with the synergistic potential of the acquisition process. We do not find empirical support for efficiency-improvement related to agency correction, financial constraint relaxation, and regulatory concern anticipation. Examining returns for divestitures only, we find that those around acquisitions are not transactions with weak bargaining positions.

Keywords: divestiture, acquisition, asset sales, asset restructuring, value creation

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Aktas, Nihat and Baros, Aleksandra and Croci, Ettore, Corporate Divestitures around Acquisitions (January 5, 2022). Proceedings of Paris December 2020 Finance Meeting EUROFIDAI - ESSEC, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3710517 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3710517
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
K R Ahern , J Harford
The importance of industry links in merger waves
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , p. 527 - 576 Posted: 2014
M F Ahmad , T Lambert
Collective bargaining and mergers and acquisitions activity around the world
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 99 , p. 21 - 44 Posted: 2019
N Aktas , E De Bodt , R Roll
Market response to European regulation of business combinations
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 39 , p. 731 - 757 Posted: 2004
N Aktas , E De Bodt , R Roll
Learning from repetitive acquisitions: Evidence from the time between deals
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , p. 99 - 117 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
226
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,490
RANK
308,851
3 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies