Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Creation and Corporate Governance

49 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2020

Steen Thomsen

Copenhagen Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: October 13, 2020

Abstract

Shareholder value maximization has been severely criticized in recent years, but it is not clear what, if anything, is to take its place. In this paper, we review three models of corporate value creation – shareholder value, stakeholder value, and company purpose achievement – and their implications for corporate governance. We first discuss shareholder value and how it is implemented through dispersed financial ownership, facilitation of takeovers, stock options and other mechanisms. Secondly, we discuss stakeholder value and its implementation through cooperatives, mutuals, employee representation and ESG indicators. Thirdly, we consider the more recent idea of a company purpose, which calls for responsible long-term ownership, management continuity and financial conservatism. We conclude that the purpose view may be the most promising alternative because it addresses weaknesses in the two other models by providing a clear social objective that is consistent with constrained profit maximization. However, we argue that agency problems and tensions with the broader interests of society are likely to persist regardless of value creation model.

Keywords: Value creation, ESG, sustainability, shareholder value, corporate objectives, performance measures, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G32, G34, L21

Suggested Citation:

Thomsen, Steen, Value Creation and Corporate Governance (October 13, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3710467 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3710467
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,225
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,414
RANK
39,113
119 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies