Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Institutional Ownership on the Timing of Earnings Announcements: Evidence from the Russell Index Inclusion

Forthcoming at European Accounting Review

57 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2020

Silver Chung

Florida International University (FIU) - School of Accounting

Date Written: October 13, 2020

Abstract

Using the annual Russell 1000/2000 index reconstitution as an exogenous shock to institutional ownership (IO), I examine the effect of IO on firms’ decisions regarding the time of day to announce earnings. I argue that firms with high IO strategically choose to announce earnings after hours to facilitate post-announcement price discovery and reduce volatility because the after-hours period is largely dominated by sophisticated institutional investors. I find that firms with greater IO are more likely to announce earnings during after-market sessions (i.e., after hours after the market closes), but not during premarket sessions (i.e., after hours before the market opens). My analysis further shows that transient IO has a stronger influence on the likelihood of after-market announcements relative to quasi-indexer or dedicated institutional holdings and that firms with high IO are even more likely to announce during after-market sessions when firms have bad earnings news or when earnings include large transitory items. Lastly, I find that announcing earnings during after-market sessions indeed facilitates post-announcement price discovery and reduces volatility for firms with high IO. Collectively, my findings suggest that IO is a significant factor in firms’ disclosure timing decisions and that the timing of disclosures affects price discovery and volatility.

Keywords: Institutional investors, Earnings announcements, After-hours trading, Price discovery, Price volatility

JEL Classification: G23, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chung, Silver, The Effect of Institutional Ownership on the Timing of Earnings Announcements: Evidence from the Russell Index Inclusion (October 13, 2020). Forthcoming at European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3711063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
763
RANK
534,717
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies