Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Operational Regulation Complexity Psychological Cost under the New Normal: A Case Study in Indonesia

International Journal of Management, 11(9), 2020, pp. 830-840

11 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2020

Ria Oktaviani

Accounting Department, BINUS Graduate Program – Master of Accounting Bina Nusantara University, Jakarta, Indonesia, 11480

Peggy Dharmayanti

Accounting Department, BINUS Graduate Program – Master of Accounting Bina Nusantara University, Jakarta, Indonesia, 11480

Dewi Fitriasari

Aarhus School of Business; Bina Nusantara University (BINUS) - Binus Business School

Date Written: October 14, 2020

Abstract

This study explores the operational regulation complexity psychological cost as the food and beverage industry is learning to adapt to the new normal era. The study is a case study that adopts a qualitative content analysis approach in analyzing data taken from a family café in Jakarta, Indonesia. Results indicate that some psychological costs are to consider for the new normal-related operational regulations to be implemented well by the employees. The general behavior on the current regulations assist to reveal the current psychological cost of the regulations. The formulation of regulations must refer to existing constraints in perception, memory, cognition, personality, emotions, motivation, social effect, and learning ability to deal with regulations. This study is among the few studies that concentrate on regulation complexity costs. It is the earliest study that explores the regulation complexity psychological cost under the pandemic environment in the food & beverage industry. The study contributes to the practical operational regulation formulation in the setting of a cafe. Research wise, this study enriches the discourse of the new normal era in the food & beverage industry and the individual behavioral level of corporate governance in the industry

Keywords: Operational Regulation, Regulation Complexity, Psychological Cost

Suggested Citation:

Oktaviani, Ria and Dharmayanti, Peggy and Fitriasari, Dewi and Fitriasari, Dewi, Operational Regulation Complexity Psychological Cost under the New Normal: A Case Study in Indonesia (October 14, 2020). International Journal of Management, 11(9), 2020, pp. 830-840, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3711243
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
S Thomsen
Regulation complexity and the cost of governance
Brinck, Corporate Governance and Business Ethics , p. 32 - 45 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J Laffont
The new economics of regulationsten year after
Econometrica , volume 62 , issue 3 , p. 507 - 537 Posted: 1994
Crossref
O E Williamson
Transaction-cost economics: The governance of contractual relations
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 233 - 261 Posted: 1979
Crossref
O E Williamson
Calculativeness, trust and economic organization
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 453 - 486 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
532
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies