Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Challenges Faced the Internal Audit Profession in Yemen

International Journal of Management, 11(9), 2020, pp. 1018-1026.

9 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2020

Murad Thomran

Assistant Professor, Department of Accounting, Mizan Tepi University, Ethiopia

Hamed M. S. Ahmed

Assistant Professor, Department of Management, Wollo University, Ethiopia

Date Written: October 14, 2020

Abstract

Improving organization’s operation is an intent and desire of every firm, however, accomplishing such an objective seems sometimes a bit challenging. This is because it requires firms to employ systematic and disciplined approach to assess and improve the effectiveness of risk management, governance and control processes, which is unfortunately absent in most of the developing countries. As Yemen is not exception, the study aims to identify the challenges hindering the internal audit profession in Yemen. In order to fulfill the objectives of the study, this research study employed a descriptive research design. The survey questionnaire was used as a tool for data collection that was distributed to one hundred twenty five respondents in internal audit units in the selected companies. The data was then tabulated and analyzed with the help of the Statistical Software Package (SPSS). The findings of the study confirmed the existence of obstacles limiting the internal auditing profession in Yemen in term of week independency and less proficiency In addition to the availability of inadequate and poor recognition of the internal auditing profession role in the business environment. The study concluded by providing a slew of recommendations for improving the internal audit profession in the study area. A few of them focused on the necessity improve the profession and the application of its standards in the country.

Keywords: Internal auditors, Audit Profession, Internal Audit standards, Challenges

Suggested Citation:

Thomran, Murad and Ahmed, Hamed M. S., Challenges Faced the Internal Audit Profession in Yemen (October 14, 2020). International Journal of Management, 11(9), 2020, pp. 1018-1026., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3711544
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
F A Abdualmogni
The Extent of Applying Internal Auditing Standards in Yemeni Commercial Banks
Jordanian Journal For Business Management , p. 343 - 368 Posted: 2006
A Abdulghani
Developing the Role of Internal Auditor in Evaluating the Performance to Achieve the Quality Requirements in the Yemenia Airlines Posted: 2009
M Abdulsalam
Evaluating the Internal Audit Management in Yemen Public and Mixed Sectors, On the Light of Descriptive International Standards of Internal Auditing Posted: 2008
M Alafify
The Ability of Internal Auditor to Detect the Financial Fraud in the Organizations through the Application of the Internal Audit Standards Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
358
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,499
RANK
190,939
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies