Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The European Commission's Sustainable Corporate Governance Report: A Critique

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper 553/2020

Harvard Public Law Working Paper No. 20-30

Yale Journal on Regulation Bulletin

27 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2020 Last revised: 27 Apr 2021

Mark J. Roe

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Holger Spamann

Harvard Law School; ECGI

Jesse M. Fried

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Charles C. Y. Wang

Harvard University - Business School (HBS); Harvard University - Accounting & Control Unit; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: October 14, 2020

Abstract


In July 2020, the European Commission published the “Study on directors’ duties and sustainable corporate governance” by EY. The Report purports to find evidence of debilitating short-termism in EU corporate governance and recommends many changes to support sustainable corporate governance. In this paper, we point out deep flaws in the Report’s evidence and analysis. We recently submitted the content of this paper in response to the European Commission’s call for feedback.

First, the Report defines the corporate governance problem as one of pernicious short-termism that damages the environment, the climate, and stakeholders. But the Report mistakenly conflates time-horizon problems with externalities and distributional concerns. Cures for one are not cures for the others and a cure for one may well exacerbate the others. Second, the Report’s main ostensible evidence for an increase in corporate short-termism is rising gross payouts to shareholders (dividends and stock repurchases). However, the more relevant payout measure to assess corporations’ ability to fund long-term investment is net payouts (gross payouts minus equity issuances), which is much lower and has left plenty of funds available for long-term and short-term investment. Third, when the Report turns to other evidence for short-termism, it selectively picks academic studies that support its views on short-termism, while failing to engage substantial contrary literature. Significant studies fail to detect short-termism and some substantial studies show excessive long-termism. Conceptually, some short-termism is an unfortunate but an inevitable side effect of effective corporate governance and may not be a first-order problem warranting wholesale reform. Finally, the Report touts cures whose effectiveness has little evidentiary support and, for some, there is real evidence that the cures could be counterproductive and costly.


Keywords: corporate governance, short-termism, hedge funds, shareholder activism, European Union, securities regulation, agency costs, research and development, political economy, investment, payouts, repurchases

JEL Classification: D72, E71, G18, G34, G38, G41, K22, L21

Suggested Citation:

Roe, Mark J. and Spamann, Holger and Fried, Jesse M. and Wang, Charles C. Y., The European Commission's Sustainable Corporate Governance Report: A Critique (October 14, 2020). European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper 553/2020, Harvard Public Law Working Paper No. 20-30, Yale Journal on Regulation Bulletin, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3711652 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3711652
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Id
at Annex I, 105
Id
at Annex I, 105 n. 218
Wei Jiang
Who are the Short-Termists? 30
J. APPLIED CORP. FIN , volume 19 , p. 20 - 21 Posted: 2018
J Mark , Roe
Corporate Short-Termism-In the Boardroom and in the Courtroom, 68 BUS , volume 977 , p. 998 - 1001 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,174
RANK
16,239
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies