Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Client Consequences of Auditor Independence Violations: Evidence from SEC Sanctions against PwC

52 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2020 Last revised: 27 Nov 2023

Russell Barber

University of Colorado Denver

Carol Callaway Dee

University of Colorado Denver

Katherine Gunny

University of Colorado at Denver

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 17, 2023

Abstract

In 2019, the audit firm PwC was sanctioned by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for violating auditor independence rules for providing prohibited non-audit services (NAS) to audit clients. We use this setting to examine whether violation of auditor independence rules is associated with a reduction in perceived or actual audit quality. The sanctions against PwC provide a rare opportunity to explore whether lack of auditor independence reduces investors’ confidence in the audited financial statements. We find that PwC independence rule violations are associated with a reduction in perceived audit quality and the reduction is concentrated in clients with high abnormal audit fees and weak audit committees, suggesting investors are reacting to PwC independence violations and not just firm-wide reputation concerns. We also find actual audit quality improves from the violation period to the post-violation period. Overall, we provide evidence that independence rule violations impair audit quality, and that rules in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibiting certain NAS are valued by investors.

Keywords: PCAOB, auditor independence, audit quality, non-audit service

Suggested Citation:

Barber, Russell and Dee, Carol Callaway and Gunny, Katherine, Client Consequences of Auditor Independence Violations: Evidence from SEC Sanctions against PwC (November 17, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3711803 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3711803
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
L J Abbott , W L Buslepp
An investigation of the market's pricing of auditor competence: Evidence from PwC's Oscars blunder
Accounting, Organizations and Society Posted: 2021
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
R Anderson , S Mansi , D Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
270
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,922
RANK
177,635
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies