Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reversing the Resource Curse: Foreign Corruption Regulation and the Local Economic Benefits of Resource Extraction

100 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2020 Last revised: 18 Oct 2022

Hans Bonde Christensen

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Mark G. Maffett

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Thomas Rauter

University of Zurich - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: October 17, 2022

Abstract

We examine how foreign corruption regulation affects the economic benefits communities receive from extraction activities in resource-rich areas of Africa. After a mid-2000s increase in enforcement of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), nighttime luminosity increases by 15% (5%) in communities within a 10-(25-) kilometer radius of affected extraction facilities. Cash-wage employment also increases significantly, suggesting that the economic benefits are not limited to electricity access. Consistent with foreign corruption regulation mitigating the political resource curse, we find that perceived corruption decreases following the rise in FCPA enforcement.

Keywords: Foreign Corruption Regulation; Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA); Natural Resource Extraction; Nighttime Luminosity; Governance

JEL Classification: F50; F60; K2; M4; O1

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Hans Bonde and Maffett, Mark G. and Rauter, Thomas, Reversing the Resource Curse: Foreign Corruption Regulation and the Local Economic Benefits of Resource Extraction (October 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3712693 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3712693
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
D Acemoglu , J A Robinson
Why Nations Fail: The Origins of Power, Prosperity and Poverty Posted: 2012
V Amendolagine , A Boly , N D Coniglio , F Prota , A Seric
Data for: FDI and Local Linkages in Developing Countries: Evidence from Sub-Saharan Africa , volume 50 , p. 41 - 56 Posted: 2013
A Armand , A Coutts , P C Vicente , I Vilela
Does Information Break the Political Resource Curse? Experimental Evidence from Mozambique
American Economic Review , volume 110 , issue 11 , p. 3431 - 3453 Posted: 2020
E Avis , C Ferraz , F Finan
Do Government Audits Reduce Corruption? Estimating the Impacts of Exposing Corrupt Politicians
Journal of Political Economy , volume 126 , p. 1912 - 1964 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
473
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,511
RANK
138,678
1 Citations
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies