Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Contributions of CSR Activities in Shouldering a Better Tomorrow

International Journal of Management, 11(9), 2020, pp. 1167-1173

7 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2020

Sunny Shreya Dutta

Research Scholar, Department of Economics, Krishna Kanta Handiqui State Open University, Assam, India

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has become an integral part of the developmental process of an economy. It implies the initiatives undertaken by the corporate units to achieve sustainable goals. The motive behind this is to design society benefitting tasks with the aim of ‘giving back to society’. Attempts have been made to bring about revolutionary changes in areas of health, education, employment, infrastructure, rural development, social security, environment, water and sanitation, digitalization, combating poverty, and so on through the CSR initiatives. A large number of CSR schemes have been implemented in India to attain sustainability. Assam is among the top ten states enjoying such benefits. This paper intends to study some of the initiatives undertaken in the state, their contributions towards the economy of Assam, their performances and future prospects. Findings show that the currently available initiatives are not adequate as compared to the ample of requisites to boost the developmental scenario of the state. Expansion of CSR strategies is thus necessary to bring about a holistic development of the state of Assam.

Keywords: CSR, Assam, Implemented Activities, Future Prospects

Suggested Citation:

Dutta, Sunny Shreya, Economic Contributions of CSR Activities in Shouldering a Better Tomorrow (2020). International Journal of Management, 11(9), 2020, pp. 1167-1173, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3712058
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Csr Expenditure Reports Of , Ongc , Nrl Iocl , Years
Posted: 2016
Finance Department, Government of Assam
Assam Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Posted: 2019
P Dhar
Corporate Social Responsibility and Community Development in Assam: A Case Study of Oil India Limited Posted: 2014
Crossref
N Jaysawal , S Saha
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in India: A Review. Space and Culture Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
657
RANK
355,741
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies