Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
"Green Washing" or "Authentic Effort"? An Empirical Investigation of the Quality of Sustainability Reporting by Banks

Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, https://doi.org/10.1108/AAAJ-01-2018-3330

39 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2020 Last revised: 4 Jan 2021

Habib Khan

University of Canberra

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Abu Mollik

UNIVERSITY OF CANBERRA

Harun

University of Canberra - Faculty of Business, Government and Law

Date Written: October 21, 2020

Abstract

Purpose – This study explores the quality of sustainability reporting (QSR) and the impact of regulatory guidelines, social performance and a standardised reporting framework (using the Global Reporting Initiative [GRI] guidelines) on QSR in the context of banks in Bangladesh.

Design/methodology/approach – Using a sample of 315 banking firm-year observations over 13 years (2002–2014), a content analysis technique is used to develop the 11-item QSR index. Regression analysis is used to test the research hypotheses.

Findings – Initially, QSR evolved symbolically in Bangladesh’s banks but, over our investigation period, with QSR indicators gradually improving, the trends became substantive. The influences on QSR were sustainable banking practice regulatory guidelines, social performance and use of the GRI guidelines. However, until banks improve reporting information, such as external verification and trends over time, QSR cannot be regarded as fully substantive.

Research limitations/implications – This study advances QSR research and debate among academic researchers. With regulatory agencies and stakeholders increasingly using sustainability reporting information for decision making, the information’s reliability is vital.

Originality/value – This study is the first on QSR in the banking industry context, with previous research mostly investigating the quantity of sustainability reporting. The current study also synthesises QSR with sustainability regulation and social performance factors which have rarely been used in the sustainability literature. To gain a holistic understanding of QSR, existing QSR measures are advanced by combining external reporting efforts with banks’ internalisation initiatives.

Keywords: Sustainability reporting quality, Green washing, Authentic effort, Banking industry, Bangladesh

JEL Classification: G21; G34; M14; M41

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Habib and Bose, Sudipta and Mollik, Abu Taher and Harun, Harun, "Green Washing" or "Authentic Effort"? An Empirical Investigation of the Quality of Sustainability Reporting by Banks (October 21, 2020). Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, https://doi.org/10.1108/AAAJ-01-2018-3330, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3715959 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3715959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
J Abernathy , C Stefaniak , A Wilkins , J Olson
Literature review and research opportunities on credibility of corporate social responsibility reporting
American Journal of Business , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 24 - 41 Posted: 2017
Crossref
H Al-Shaer , M Zaman
Board gender diversity and sustainability reporting quality
Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 210 - 222 Posted: 2016
Crossref
H Al-Shaer , M Zaman
Credibility of sustainability reports
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 27 , p. 973 - 986 Posted: 2018
Bangladesh Bank
Review of CSR activities of Bangladesh Bank, commercial banks and financial institutions -2014 Posted: 2015-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
476
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,640
RANK
137,584
1 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies