Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting Informed Insider Sales in the China A-Share Market

53 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2021 Last revised: 13 Dec 2021

Yue Hu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; Shanghai National Accounting Institute; Shanghai National Accounting Institute

Date Written: October 21, 2020

Abstract

This study differentiates informed and uninformed corporate insider sales in the China A-share market. I suspect that insider sales occurring when the price is stable are driven by private information because insiders cannot acquire information from the market to adjust their portfolios when the price is stable. I find that the absolute price change before insiders sell negatively predicts the firm's underperformance for the quarter that insiders sell and that it cannot predict the firm's underperformance in the subsequent quarter. These findings collectively suggest that informed inside sellers in the A-share market are blatant: they do not camouflage their informed sales or postpone the release of private information they sell on. Overall, this study offers the regulators and investors a simple method to detect informed insider sales in the A-share market.

Keywords: Insider selling, Information Acquisition, Accounting Performance, China Market

JEL Classification: M41 M48 G14 K22

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Yue, Detecting Informed Insider Sales in the China A-Share Market (October 21, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3715961 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3715961
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Earnings quality, insider trading, and cost of capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 651 - 673 Posted: 2005
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
847
RANK
622,944
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies