Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Priest, the Sex Worker, and the CEO: Measuring Motivation by Job Type

Arnulf, J. K., et al. (2020). "The Priest, the Sex Worker, and the CEO: Measuring Motivation by Job Type." Frontiers in Psychology 11: 1321.

22 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2020

Jan Ketil Arnulf

BI Norwegian Business School

Kim Nimon

University of North Texas

Kai R. Larsen

Leeds School of Business; Information Systems Group; Gallup

Christiane V. Hovland

BI Norwegian Business School

Merethe Arnesen

BI Norwegian Business School

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

This study uses latent semantic analysis (LSA) to explore how prevalent measures of motivation are interpreted across very diverse job types. Building on the Semantic Theory of Survey Response (STSR), we calculate “semantic compliance” as the degree to which an individual’s responses follow a semantically predictable pattern. This allows us to examine how context, in the form of job type, influences respondent interpretations of items. In total, 399 respondents from 18 widely different job types (from CEOs through lawyers, priests and artists to sex workers and professional soldiers) self-rated their work motivation on eight commonly applied scales from research on motivation. A second sample served as an external evaluation panel (n = 30) and rated the 18 job types across eight job characteristics. Independent measures of the job types’ salary levels were obtained from national statistics. The findings indicate that while job type predicts motivational score levels significantly, semantic compliance as moderated by job type job also predicts motivational score levels usually at a lesser but significant magnitude. Combined, semantic compliance and job type explained up to 41% of the differences in motional score levels. The variation in semantic compliance was also significantly related to job characteristics as rated by an external panel, and to national income levels. Our findings indicate that people in different contexts interpret items differently to a degree that substantially affects their score levels. We discuss how future measurements of motivation may improve by taking semantic compliance and the STSR perspective into consideration.

Keywords: Motivation, Job Types, Latent Semantic Analysis, Semantic Theory of Survey Response, Intrinsic Motivation, Measurement, Payment Level, Likert Scales

Suggested Citation:

Arnulf, Jan Ketil and Nimon, Kim and Larsen, Kai R. and Hovland, Christiane V. and Arnesen, Merethe, The Priest, the Sex Worker, and the CEO: Measuring Motivation by Job Type (2020). Arnulf, J. K., et al. (2020). "The Priest, the Sex Worker, and the CEO: Measuring Motivation by Job Type." Frontiers in Psychology 11: 1321., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3716162
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
N J Allen , J P Meyer
The measurement and antecedents of affective, continuance, and normative commitments to organization
J. Occup. Psychol , volume 63 , p. 1 - 8 Posted: 1990
Crossref
M Anandarajan , C Hill , Nolan , T
Latent semantic analysis (LSA) in python
Practical Text Analytics: Maximizing the Value of Text Data , p. 221 - 242 Posted: 2019
Crossref
D Andrich
A hyperbolic cosine latent trait model for unfolding polytomous responses: reconciling Thurstone and Likert methodologies
Br. J. Math. Stat. Psychol , volume 49 , p. 347 - 365 Posted: 1996
Crossref
J Antonakis , S Bendahan , P Jacquart , R Lalive
On making causal claims: a review and recommendations
Leadersh. Q , volume 21 , p. 1086 - 1120 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
945
RANK
572,087
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies