Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blood in the Water: The Value of Antitakeover Provisions During Market Shocks

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2020 Last revised: 10 Jan 2022

Scott Guernsey

University of Tennessee

Simone M. Sepe

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law; University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management; University of Arizona - James E. Rogers College of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); American College of Governance Counsel

Matthew Serfling

University of Tennessee; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: December 20, 2021

Abstract

During market-wide shocks that cause large drops in stock prices, firms with more state-endorsed antitakeover provisions (ATPs) experience smaller declines in value. Two channels appear to drive this finding. First, by giving boards more bargaining power to fight opportunistic bids, firms with more ATPs extract higher takeover premiums during market shocks. Second, having more ATPs attenuates the effect of market shocks on firm value by protecting relationship-specific investments with stakeholders from disruptive takeovers. Our results suggest that ATPs benefit shareholders during market shocks when firm values are abnormally low and represent one advantage of incorporating in states with more ATPs.

Keywords: Antitakeover provisions, Market shocks, Firm value, Takeover premiums, Relationship-specific investments

JEL Classification: G14, G32, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Guernsey, Scott and Sepe, Simone M. and Serfling, Matthew, Blood in the Water: The Value of Antitakeover Provisions During Market Shocks (December 20, 2021). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3716995 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3716995
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
103 References
K R Ahern , J Harford
The importance of industry links in merger waves
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , p. 527 - 576 Posted: 2014
G Akerlof
The market for 'lemons': quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
J W Allen , G M Philips
Corporate equity ownership, strategic alliances, and product market relationships
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 2791 - 2815 Posted: 2000
J S Ang , R A Cole , J W Lin
Agency costs and ownership structure
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
883
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,483
RANK
62,151
103 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies