Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Effects of Digital Expertise on Corporate Boards

43 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2020 Last revised: 12 May 2021

Sudha Mathew

University of Westminster

Premkanth Puwanenthiren

Westminster University

Sheeja Sivaprasad

University of Westminster

Date Written: October 22, 2020

Abstract

We examine the impact of board level digital expertise on firm performance for a sample of FTSE 350 firms over the period 2013 to 2018. We find that the presence of digital experts on the boards is significantly and positively related to firm performance. We conduct several additional tests to establish the robustness of the causal relation between digital experts on board and firm performance. Using propensity score matching (PSM) analysis, we document that firms which have digital experts on board have a significant increase in their firm performance relative to a matched sample of firms without digital experts on board. Our findings underscore the significance of digital experts on board in improving firm growth, liquidity and reducing business risk, thereby enabling such firms to increase performance. Additional tests show that the presence of digital experts on board has a strong influence on information asymmetry and corporate governance mechanisms. Our findings highlight the importance of digital expertise on boards. These findings are useful to policy makers as it can form the basis for formulating guidelines for improving board structure and composition.

Keywords: Digital experts on board, Firm performance, Growth, Liquidity, Business Risks, Information Asymmetry.

JEL Classification: G10, G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Mathew, Sudha and Puwanenthiren, Premkanth and Sivaprasad, Sheeja, The Value Effects of Digital Expertise on Corporate Boards (October 22, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3716771 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3716771
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
J Dahya , J J Mcconnell
Board composition, corporate performance, and the Cadbury committee recommendation
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 535 - 564 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Lynne Dallas
Developments in U.S. Boards of Directors and the Multiple Roles of Corporate Boards
San Diego Law Review, Vol. 40, 2003 Pages: 48 Posted: 17 Jun 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
P Davies
Introduction to Company Law
Clarendon Law Series Posted: 2002
D Dehaas , A Main
The Board's Role in Shaping Digital Transformation
NACD Directorship, Director Advisory Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
429
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,885
RANK
155,551
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies