Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ordeal by Innocence in the Big-data Era: Intended Data Breach Disclosure, Unintended Real Activities Manipulation

48 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2020 Last revised: 31 Aug 2021

Jinyu Liu

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) - School of Banking and Finance

Xiaoran Ni

Xiamen University - School of Economics; Xiamen University - Wang Yanan Institute for Studies in Economics (WISE)

Date Written: August 31, 2021

Abstract

In this paper, we demonstrate that the mandatory disclosure of data breaches may have an unintended consequence: the distortion of firms’ real business activities. We employ the staggered adoption of data breach disclosure laws across various U.S. states to show that such mandatory disclosure exacerbates firms’ real earnings manipulation multidimensional through twisting production costs, discretionary expenses, and cash flow from operations. The main effect is more pronounced for firms of which the outbreak of data breaches is more of a concern and under stronger short-term market pressures. Furthermore, the adoption of such laws is associated with higher stock price crash risk and fewer patenting activities. Overall, our findings reveal possible unintended real effects of certain laws oriented at protecting customers through mitigating information opacity.

Keywords: Data Breach; Mandatory Disclosure; Real Activities Manipulation; Earnings Management

JEL Classification: G31; G32; G38

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Jinyu and Ni, Xiaoran, Ordeal by Innocence in the Big-data Era: Intended Data Breach Disclosure, Unintended Real Activities Manipulation (August 31, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3716048 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3716048
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,220
RANK
293,623
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies