Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organizational Memory and Bank Accounting Conservatism

69 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2021

Justin Yiqiang Jin

McMaster University - DeGroote School of Business

Yi Liu

State University of New York (SUNY) - State University of New York (SUNY) at Oswego

Khalid Nainar

McMaster University - Michael G. DeGroote School of Business

Date Written: October 23, 2020

Abstract

This paper is the first to investigate the impact of banks’ organizational memory of past history on the conservatism of accounting policy. Specifically, we investigate two types of bad time history: banks’ undercapitalization and the failures of other banks during financial crises. Using a large sample of U.S. banks over the period 1997-2013, we find that both types of bad times are positively related to timelier recognition of earnings decreases versus earnings increases in accounting income. We also find that following bad times, banks increase their allowance for loan losses. The results of path analysis and survey research indicate that bad time memory of banks impacts bank accounting conservatism through CEO tenure and board of directors’ tenure. Collectively, our results suggest that banks’ organizational memory of bad times and macro-level banking crises lead to greater accounting conservatism in banks.

Keywords: Organizational Memory; Bank Accounting Conservatism; Bank History; Allowance for Loan Losses

Suggested Citation:

Jin, Justin Y. and Liu, Yi and Nainar, S. M. Khalid, Organizational Memory and Bank Accounting Conservatism (October 23, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3717944 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3717944
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Hajar El Mouttaqui , Kimberly C. Gleason , Pornsit Jiraporn , Feras Salama
Organizational Form and Earnings Management
FINANA-D-23-01551 · 48 Pages · Posted: 26 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 58
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hajar El Mouttaqui , Kimberly C. Gleason , Pornsit Jiraporn , Feras Salama
How Does Corporate Diversification Affect Earnings Management? A Path Analysis Approach
IREF-D-24-00118 · 55 Pages · Posted: 5 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 109
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
640
RANK
718,946
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies