Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Artificial Intelligence Shape Audit Firms?

Management Science, Forthcoming

113 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2020 Last revised: 12 Jul 2024

Kelvin Law

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Michael Shen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Date Written: July 12, 2020

Abstract

Does artificial intelligence (AI) displace auditors? We exploit the staggered hiring of AI employees at audit office locations across the United States as a proxy for the use of AI at local audit offices. The main findings are as follows. First, relative to audit offices that do not yet hire AI employees, those that do hire AI employees have a 4.3% increase in the number of auditor jobs, particularly among junior and mid-level auditors. Second, using AI is associated with an increased demand for soft skills (e.g., cognitive skills) in auditor jobs. Third, audit offices that use AI have more accurate going concern and internal control opinions. Semi-structured interviews of eleven seasoned audit partners confirm that investment in AI is centralized at the national level, but the decision to deploy it often resides at the local audit office level. Notably, none of the partners believe that AI has replaced or will replace human auditors. Overall, our study—comprising both empirical and qualitative data—suggests that using AI does not replace auditors, but rather changes the skills required for these jobs and improves audit quality.

Keywords: Artificial intelligence, auditors, machine learning, audit quality

JEL Classification: O33, M42, J6, J23, J24

Suggested Citation:

Law, Kelvin and Shen, Michael, How Does Artificial Intelligence Shape Audit Firms? (July 12, 2020). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3718343 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3718343
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
D Acemoglu , D Autor , J Hazell , P Restrepo
Artificial Intelligence and Jobs: Evidence from Online Vacancies
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 40 , issue S1 , p. 293 - S340 Posted: 2022
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Artificial Intelligence, Automation and Work Posted: 2018
Automation and New Tasks: How Technology Displaces and Reinstates Labor
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 2019
Robots and Jobs: Evidence from US Labor Markets
Journal of Political Economy , volume 128 , issue 6 , p. 2188 - 2244 Posted: 2020
Load more
1 Citations
Kelvin Law , Michael Shen
How Does Artificial Intelligence Shape Audit Firms?
Management Science, Forthcoming · 113 Pages · Posted: 27 Oct 2020 · Last revised: 30 Aug 2024 · Downloads: 3,681
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,681
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,305
RANK
7,000
1 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies