Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Parents Companies Be Attributed for Their Subsidiary Performance? A Multi-Level Analysis for Performance Determinants of Multinational Enterprises in Pakistan

35 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2022 Last revised: 31 Dec 2020

Nayab Zahra

Karachi University Business School (KUBS), University of Karachi

Danish Ahmed Siddiqui

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Date Written: October 26, 2020

Abstract

International firms are highly sensitive to the performance of their subsidiaries and want to understand the factors behind their monetary success. Thus, numerous strategies are employed by these International firms to explore subsidiaries’ performance determinants; usually these includes subsidiary level attributes, ignoring parent’s impact along with its country. To address this gap we construct a multi-level research that focuses the subsidiary, parent attributes along with countries’ Governance Indicators, while predicting the determinants of subsidiary performance in Pakistan. We use two different levels i.e. parent & subsidiary level; multi-level analysis approach with HLM (Hierarchical Linear Model) in this research paper. Governance indicators of both parents and subsidiaries were taken explanatory factors along with Market growth, size, Performance, R & D, capital structure as well as asset management policies of parent. Subsidiary level factors included parents’ ownership, size, equity, and capital investment. 26 multinational companies listed in Pakistan Stock Exchange were included. Data was taken from the year 2012 to 2018. Selected companies cover around ten sectors of Pakistan Stock Exchange. The study revealed that on both level; parents and subsidiary, Governance institutions are more influencing factors rather than companies’ own attributes. We recommend that before investing in a country, international businesses should take into account Governance institutions (by World Bank); more than their own attributes. Originality/value; This study contributes to the existing approaches of determining subsidiary performance through adding Governance institutions and parent level attributes. Especially it explores the determinants of subsidiary performance in a developing country; Pakistan in Asia continent.

Keywords: Keywords: International firms, subsidiary performance, Multi-level analysis, Hierarchical Linear Model, World governance indicators, Pakistan, Asia.

JEL Classification: International Business Administration

Suggested Citation:

Zahra, Nayab and Siddiqui, Danish Ahmed, Can Parents Companies Be Attributed for Their Subsidiary Performance? A Multi-Level Analysis for Performance Determinants of Multinational Enterprises in Pakistan (October 26, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3719319 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3719319
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
What is the effect of parent company performance on its subsidiary co. performance? 4) What is the impact of R & D Investment of parent company on the subsidiary performance? 5) What is the impact of parent ownership
What is the impact of capital amount of subsidiary on its performance?
What is the impact of Investment amount from the parent, on the subsidiary performance? 9) What is the impact of gearing ratio (D/E ratio) of subsidiary on its performance? 10) What is the effect of inventory turnover (subsidiary), on its performance? 11) What is the impact of parent D/E ratio on its subsidiary performance? 12) What is the impact of parent's inventory turnover ratio on its subsidiary performance? 13) What is the impact of governance indicator of Pakistan on the performance of subsidiaries in Pakistan?
What is the impact of governance indicator as per parent's company on the performance of subsidiary in Pakistan? 3. Conceptual Framework 3.1 Figure 1 Showing Conceptual Framework REFERENCES Abodohoui Posted: 2013
Load more
1 Citations
Meilani Devi Utami , Erwin Saraswati , Lilik Purwati
Factors influencing the carbon emissions disclosure in basic and chemical industrial companies listed on the IDX in 2016-2019
International Journal of Research in Business and Social Science (2147- 4478) , volume 11 , issue 9 , p. 193 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,374
RANK
545,411
1 Citations
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies