Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Filling in the Governance Void: The Voice of Individual Investors

61 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2020 Last revised: 22 Jan 2023

Jacky Chau

Shenzhen Technology University

Shufang Lai

Southern University of Science and Technology

Yong George Yang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Faculty of Business Administration

Date Written: October 29, 2020

Abstract

We examine investors’ corporate engagements on an online interactive platform that is curated by regulators to encourage the communication between small investors and publicly listed firms. Investors can query for information and voice their criticisms and suggestions in these online engagements. We find that investors’ engagements on the platform increase when the firm shows signs of underperformance, weaker external monitoring by institutional investors, or weaker managerial incentive alignment with shareholders. More active engagements on the platform are associated with more timely enforcement actions against securities fraud. Overall, our findings suggest that individual investors in aggregate manifest incentives to fill in the void of corporate governance when empowered by a conducive regulatory environment.

Keywords: Shareholder Monitoring, Retail Investors, Corporate Governance, Information Demand, Investor Communication

JEL Classification: G10, G23, M40

Suggested Citation:

Chau, Yuen-Kit and Lai, Shufang and Yang, Yong George, Filling in the Governance Void: The Voice of Individual Investors (October 29, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3721526 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3721526
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
592
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,168
RANK
104,934
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies