Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Perspective on R&D Accounting

73 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2020 Last revised: 1 Mar 2024

Zachary King

Wisconsin School of Business

Date Written: February 29, 2024

Abstract

Rapid growth in R&D spending has occurred over the past 60 years, leading prominent academics, government officials, and members of the business press to be increasingly critical of requirements to immediately expense R&D outlays. They often assert it provides little or no relevant information about R&D program market values and suggest a capitalization and amortization approach would be a cost-beneficial solution. Although prior work supports this assertion it does so based on theory for tangible capital in which uncertain time lags between R&D outlays and future revenues are not modeled. Given such time lags are well-documented and their existence makes links between R&D program market values and accounting numbers unclear; I review, extend, and test implications of alternative theory that models a lag in the timing of R&D outlays and revenues that persists for an uncertain number of current and future periods. Findings suggest that immediate expensing results in R&D accounting numbers that are as good or better at explaining R&D program market values as compared to a capitalization and amortization approach. This study enhances our understanding of the value-relevance of R&D accounting numbers and provides insights that are likely of interest to standard setters, who are actively considering changing US accounting requirements for R&D.

Keywords: Accounting policy; accounting standards; research and development; standard setting; value relevance

JEL Classification: D24, M41, O30

Suggested Citation:

King, Zachary, A New Perspective on R&D Accounting (February 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3722902 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3722902
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
A B Abel , J C Eberly
A Unified Model of Investment Under Uncertainty , volume 84 , p. 1369 - 1384 Posted: 1994
T Abrahams , B K Sidhu
The Role of R&D Capitalisations in Firm Valuation and Performance Measurement
Australian Journal of Management , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 183 Posted: 1998
K Ahmed , H Falk
The value relevance of management's research and development reporting choice: Evidence from Australia
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 231 - 264 Posted: 2006
J K Aier , L Chen , M Pevzner
Debtholders' Demand for Conservatism: Evidence from Changes in Directors' Fiduciary Duties
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , issue 5 , p. 993 - 1027 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
419
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,790
RANK
159,842
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies