Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recapitalization in the Nigerian Insurance Industry: The Mergers and Acquisitions Option

15 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2020 Last revised: 6 Apr 2021

Akorede Folarin

Banwo & Ighodalo; Olajide Oyewole LLP (A Member of DLA Piper Africa)

Date Written: October 5, 2020

Abstract

In an ambitious move for the recapitalization of the insurance industry in Nigeria, the National Insurance Commission ("NAICOM") had in 2019 reviewed and increased the minimum paid-up share capital requirement for all classes of insurers doing business in Nigeria (except Takaful operators and micro-insurance companies). Naturally, therefore, players in the sector have been exploring a range of options to help them meet these major recapitalization requirements. These insurance companies have, however, been facing many difficulties in raising the necessary capital due to an unattractive insurance sector, a fact which has been exacerbated by the disruptive effects of the coronavirus pandemic on the economy. Also, apart from discounting real assets from being computed towards the recapitalization, NAICOM has restricted insurance companies from using debt finance to meet their recapitalization requirements, insisting that prospective investors must join the company and participate in its management rather than hand over money and fall into the background. All of this has made mergers and acquisitions (“M&A”) a very attractive option for affected insurance companies. On that note, this paper explores the regulatory framework for M&A as a veritable avenue for insurance companies to meet their recapitalization obligations. The paper also posits that M&A represents the most advantageous recapitalization option in the light of the present economic realities, as it stands to help increase value generation, maximize cost efficiencies, and increase market share without frittering away scarce assets or unduly burdening affected companies.


Keywords: Insurance, Recapitalization, Mergers, Acquisitions, Reorganization

Suggested Citation:

Folarin, Akorede, Recapitalization in the Nigerian Insurance Industry: The Mergers and Acquisitions Option (October 5, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3722096 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3722096
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
817
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,544
RANK
69,065
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies