Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects and Potential Benefits of Audit Committee Oversight in a Strategic Setting

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2020 Last revised: 15 Apr 2024

Evelyn Patterson

Indiana University-Kelley School of Business

Reed Smith

Kelley School of Business

Samuel L. Tiras

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: December 29, 2023

Abstract

Since the passage of Sarbanes-Oxley in 2002, many notable frauds have been tied to ineffective
audit committee (AC) oversight. As a result, AC oversight is of continuing interest and regulators
continue to debate this issue, garnering a growing body of research focused on the role played by
the AC. But little theoretical research exists to guide analytical and empirical researchers
investigating AC oversight. The purpose of this study is to provide theoretical guidance by
examining AC oversight in a strategic setting. We focus on the AC’s role in overseeing internal
controls and the impact of whether the AC relies on management in designing the controls. We
characterize how the nature of control risk changes, as well as how internal control strength is
associated with the amount of managerial fraud, the expected probability of detection (which, on
average, equates to audit effort), and audit quality (assessed as 1-audit risk) across two settings
defined by the degree of AC oversight. As one example that highlights the need for theoretical
guidance, consider the literature's presumption that internal control strength is negatively
associated with audit effort. We find that this association may be positive or negative as internal
control changes, where the association varies with the degree of direct audit committee oversight
and the change in payoff parameters.

Keywords: Strategic auditing, audit committee, internal control

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Patterson, Evelyn and Smith, J. Reed and Tiras, Samuel L., The Effects and Potential Benefits of Audit Committee Oversight in a Strategic Setting (December 29, 2023). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3722346 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3722346
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Aicpa
Statements on Auditing Standards (SAS)\Codification. AU-C 200: Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards Posted: 2020
Aicpa
Statements on Auditing Standards (SAS)\Codification. AU-C 315: Understanding the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement Posted: 2020
Aicpa
Statements on Auditing Standards (SAS)\Codification. AU-C 240 Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit Posted: 2020
G Casella , R L Berger
Statistical Inference Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,205
RANK
339,258
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies