Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Opacity, Systemic Risk and Financial Stability

49 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2021 Last revised: 30 Dec 2022

Michael Mies

University of Siegen, Chair of Accounting & Corporate Governance

Date Written: November 26, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of bank opacity on European financial stability. Based on a panel dataset of listed European banks covering the period 2002–2018, it can be shown that bank opacity has a significant influence on the institution-specific contribution to the ∆Conditional Value at Risk and Marginal Expected Shortfall. The enforcement mechanism and the policies introduced by accounting standard setters and regulators for the risk disclosure of banks have a positive impact on the mitigation of bank opacity and the reduction of systemic risk. Both the risk reporting in accordance with IFRS 7 and the measures introduced by the Basel Committee in the form of the Basel Pillar 3 regulation led to an increase in transparency (reduction of bank opacity) and thus an improvement in financial market stability. As an independent enforcement mechanism, the country-specific strength of the external auditing profession plays a significant role in mitigating opacity and fostering stability. The results are robust, by using both alternative opacity measures and dynamic panel data models (GMM) to control for potential endogeneity.

Keywords: Systemic Risk, Bank Opacity, Risk Disclosure, Enforcement, Banking Regulation, IFRS7, Basel Pillar 3

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G32, G38, M48

Suggested Citation:

Mies, Michael, Bank Opacity, Systemic Risk and Financial Stability (November 26, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3723044 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3723044
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
Annual growth rate of Gross domestic product (GDP Growth), Change in Gross domestic product divided by population (∆GDP per CU), Inflation (Inflation)
* , *
* , *
* , *
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
256
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,167
RANK
272,962
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies