Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of External Capital in Funding Cash Flow Shocks: Evidence From the COVID-19 Pandemic

40 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2020 Last revised: 7 Mar 2022

Edith S. Hotchkiss

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Greg Nini

Drexel University - Department of Finance

David C. Smith

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Date Written: March 3, 2021

Abstract

Using a novel measure of firms’ expected revenue shortfall at the onset of the pandemic, we study the cross sectional differences in how firms fund cash flow shortfalls. We document a U-shaped pattern, where external capital flows to firms with the largest positive and negative expected cash flow shocks. Firms traditionally considered “financially constrained” raise more - not less - capital (relative to assets), on the margin by issuing equity, while unconstrained firms rely on debt markets. Our findings suggest that external equity plays a crucial role as a financing source for smaller, younger, and otherwise riskier firms in times of stress.

Keywords: COVID-19, external financing, financial constraints, capital raising, corporate debt, zombies

JEL Classification: G01, G32

Suggested Citation:

Hotchkiss, Edith S. and Nini, Gregory and Smith, David Carl, The Role of External Capital in Funding Cash Flow Shocks: Evidence From the COVID-19 Pandemic (March 3, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3723001 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3723001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
V Acharya , S Steffen
The risk of being a fallen angel and the corporate dash for cash in the midst of COVID
Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , p. 430 - 471 Posted: 2020
G Alekseev , S Amer , M Gopal , T Kuchler , J W Schneider , J Stroebel , N C Wernerfelt
The Effects of COVID-19 on US small businesses: Evidence from owners, managers, and employees
Forthcoming, Management Science Posted: 2021
E Altman , Rui Dai , Wei Wang
Global zombies
Global Private Equity Report Posted: 2020
Ryan Banerjee , Boris Hofmann
The rise of zombie firms: causes and consequences
BIS Quarterly Review Posted: 2018-09
Load more
10 Citations
Sharjil Haque , Richard Varghese
The COVID-19 Impact on Corporate Leverage and Financial Fragility
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2021
Crossref
Lei Li , Philip E. Strahan
Who Supplies PPP Loans (and Does It Matter)? Banks, Relationships, and the COVID Crisis
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 56 , issue 7 , p. 2411 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Davide Pettenuzzo , Riccardo Sabbatucci , Allan Timmermann
Payout suspensions during the Covid-19 pandemic
Economics Letters , volume 224 , p. 111024 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Diana Alhajjeah , Mustafa Besim
Firms’ Capital Structure during Crises: Evidence from the United Kingdom
Sustainability , volume 16 , issue 13 , p. 5469 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
832
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,540
RANK
67,447
10 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies