Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mind the Gap: Is Water Disclosure a Missing Component of Corporate Social Responsibility?

The British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

The Chinese University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2021-03

38 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2021

Linhan Zhang

Chinese University of Hong Kong

Qingliang Tang

Western Sydney University - School of Business

(Robin) Hui Huang

Chinese University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Law; 华东政法大学(East China University of Political Sicence and Law); University of New South Wales - Faculty of Law

Date Written: August 13, 2020

Abstract

Corporate water stewardship is conventionally internally focused, but now it is becoming a critical issue in a wider socio-political context. Drawing on the theory of self-regulation, we investigate the rationale behind, and the factors contributing to, corporate decisions to voluntarily disclose water information via the CDP. The study uses innovative proxies for corporate self-regulation, including water governance, water policy, water actions, and water performance. Our results show that these proxies are significantly related to the propensity of the companies participating in the CDP to disclose water information. Furthermore, belonging to a water-intensive industry may moderate the impact of self-regulation on water transparency. Finally, sharing water information privately with key institutional investors is a strategic tool for implementing self-regulation. The study suggests that corporate self-regulation can play a powerful role in reducing corporate water opaqueness when mandatory water legislation is absent or not yet applicable.

Keywords: Water disclosure, Self-regulation, Private disclosure, Corporate social responsibility (CSR), Sustainability

JEL Classification: M48, Q56, K29

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Linhan and Tang, Qingliang and Huang, (Robin) Hui, Mind the Gap: Is Water Disclosure a Missing Component of Corporate Social Responsibility? (August 13, 2020). The British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, The Chinese University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2021-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3723485
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
S A Al-Tuwaijri , T E Christensen , I I Hughes , K E
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: A simultaneous equations approach. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 29 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R Alvarez-Larrauri , I Fogel
Environmental audits as a policy of state: 10 years of experience in Mexico
Journal of Cleaner Production , volume 16 , p. 66 - 74 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ameer , R Othman
Sustainability Practices and Corporate Financial Performance: A Study Based on the Top Global Corporations
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 108 , p. 61 - 79 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Armour , D A Skeel , Jr
The Divergence of U.S. and UK Takeover Regulation Corporate Governance. Regulation , volume 30 , p. 50 - 59 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
759
RANK
354,044
5 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Chinese University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies