Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Writing Down Goodwill Imperil a CEO’s Job?

54 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2021 Last revised: 31 Dec 2021

Arnold R. Cowan

Iowa State University

Cynthia Jeffrey

Iowa State University

Qian Wang

Iowa State University - College of Business

Date Written: December 11, 2021

Abstract

We find that accounting charges for goodwill impairment, which imply a deterioration in the capabilities of acquired assets to generate expected cash flows, provide useful indicators of CEO underperformance. We examine 5,990 firms that completed acquisitions and investigate the relation between CEO turnover and goodwill impairment during 2002–2016. The results show that the size and presence of a goodwill impairment charge are positively associated with forced, but not voluntary, CEO turnovers. This implies that goodwill impairment provides information before CEO changes occur. We also find that goodwill impairment has incremental power to predict forced turnover when it is unexpected based on book value relative to market value of equity and when it runs counter to overall firm performance. The association between goodwill impairment and forced CEO turnover varies with audit quality, consistent with the importance of the perceived reliability of accounting information for its effect on CEO retention decisions. Given that the FASB may eliminate annual goodwill impairment testing (FASB, 2019a), research addressing the informativeness of goodwill impairment charges is timely.

Keywords: Goodwill impairment, CEO turnover, mergers and acquisitions

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cowan, Arnold R. and Jeffrey, Cynthia G. and Wang, Qian, Does Writing Down Goodwill Imperil a CEO’s Job? (December 11, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3724709 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3724709
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor task-specific expertise: The case of fair value accounting
Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
M Alciatore , P Easton , N Spear
Accounting for the impairment of long-lived assets: Evidence from the petroleum industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 151 - 172 Posted: 2000
G Alexandridis , N Antypas , N Travlos
Value creation from M&As: New evidence
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 45 , p. 632 - 650 Posted: 2017
A Arya , B Mittendorf , R N Ramanan
Synergy between accounting disclosures and forward-looking information in stock prices
Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,221
RANK
298,527
1 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies