Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Corruption and Corporate Tax Avoidance in the U.S. Related?

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2021

Ahmed Al-Hadi

Sultan Qaboos University - Accounting; Curtin University - School of Accounting; Sultan Qaboos University - College of Economics & Political Science

Grantley Taylor

Curtin University - School of Accounting

Grant Richardson

Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance

Date Written: October 28, 2020

Abstract

In this study, we examine whether state-level corruption and corporate tax avoidance in the U.S. are related. Using a sample of 36,078 U.S. firm-year observations from 1998 to 2014, we find that corruption is significantly positively related to tax avoidance. Our main finding is consistent across a series of robustness tests. In additional analysis at the state-level, we observe that corruption is significantly positively related to corporate tax avoidance in states that have low levels of litigation risk, irrespective of whether the states rank high or low in terms of corporate governance, social capital or money laundering. We also correlate state- and firm-level corruption with firm-level corporate tax avoidance and find that the interaction terms are generally significantly positively related to corporate tax avoidance. Finally, we show that state-level corruption and corporate tax avoidance are complementary across industry sectors. Overall, our results indicate that the broader state-level corruption (cultural) effects of where a firm is headquartered have significant consequences for corporate tax avoidance.

Keywords: corruption, corporate tax avoidance

JEL Classification: G30, H20

Suggested Citation:

Al-Hadi, Ahmed and Taylor, Grantley and Richardson, Grant, Are Corruption and Corporate Tax Avoidance in the U.S. Related? (October 28, 2020). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3724290
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
J Altonji , T Elder , C Taber
Selection on observed and unobserved variables: Assessing the effectiveness of Catholic schools
Journal of Political Economy , volume 113 , p. 151 - 184 Posted: 2005
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
P C Austin
An introduction to propensity score methods for reducing the effects of confounding in observational studies
Multivariate Behavioral Research , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 399 - 424 Posted: 2011
Crossref
C Bame-Aldred , J Cullen , K Martin , K Parboteeah
National culture and firm-level tax evasion
Journal of Business Research , volume 66 , issue 3 , p. 390 - 396 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Lamia Chourou , Ashrafee T Hossain , Anand Jha
US Political Corruption and Quarterly Conference Calls
Forthcoming, Chourou, L., Hossain, A., & Jha, A. (2024). US Political Corruption and Quarterly Conference Calls. Journal of Banking and Finance. · 96 Pages · Posted: 8 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 159
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
557
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,701
RANK
113,793
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies