Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Sentiment and Stock Option Vesting Terms

Management Science, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2020

Shawn X. Huang

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Sami Keskek

Florida State University

Juan Manuel Sanchez

University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: August 31, 2020

Abstract

Using the details of vesting terms, we document that stock options granted in high investor sentiment periods tend to have shorter vesting periods and durations, and are more likely to vest completely or have a significantly larger fraction vested within one year of the grant date, relative to low sentiment periods. We further find that the sentiment effect on vesting terms is more pronounced when firms are largely held by investors with short investment horizons (e.g., transient institutions). Moreover, short vesting terms in high sentiment periods are positively associated with future M&A activity and capital expenditures. Overall, our findings are consistent with theoretical predictions that, in a speculative market, shareholders incentivize managers with short-term oriented compensation contracts to induce managers to pursue actions maintaining overvaluation.

Keywords: Investor Sentiment, Sentiment, Executive Compensation, Vesting Schedules, Vesting Terms, Stock Options

JEL Classification: E44, G12, G14, G19, G30, J33, M12, M52

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Shawn X. and Keskek, Sami and Sanchez, Juan Manuel, Investor Sentiment and Stock Option Vesting Terms (August 31, 2020). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3724552
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
B Holmstrom
Agency costs and innovation
Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization , volume 12 , p. 305 - 327 Posted: 1989
P Hribar , P Quinn
Managers and investor sentiment. Working paper Posted: 2013
K W Hui , P E Yeung
Underreaction to industry-wide earnings and the postforecast revision drift
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , p. 701 - 737 Posted: 2013
S Janakiraman , S Radhakrishnan , S Tang
Institutional investors, managerial ownership and executive compensation
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 25 , p. 673 - 698 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
336
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,144
RANK
204,782
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies