Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Effects of a Widespread CSR Reporting Mandate: Evidence from the European Union’s CSR Directive

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

74 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2020 Last revised: 7 Mar 2022

Peter Fiechter

University of Neuchatel - Institute of Financial Analysis

Joerg-Markus Hitz

University of Tübingen

Nico Lehmann

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Date Written: February 4, 2022

Abstract

We investigate real effects of a widespread corporate social responsibility (CSR) reporting mandate. In 2014, the European Union (EU) passed Directive 2014/95 (hereafter, “CSR Directive”), mandating large listed EU firms to prepare annual nonfinancial reports beginning from fiscal year 2017 onward. We document that firms within the scope of the directive respond by increasing their CSR activities and that they start doing so before the entry-into-force of the directive. These real effects are concentrated in firms that are plausibly more strongly affected by the directive, i.e., those with previously low levels of both CSR reporting and CSR activities. Using various alternative outcome variables (e.g., new CSR initiatives, improvements in CSR infrastructure, or firm performance), we show that these real effects reflect meaningful increases in CSR beyond firms’ potential attempts to “greenwash” CSR performance. Finally, we conduct tests that increase our confidence that the documented real effects are attributable to the CSR Directive and not general EU trends in CSR.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility (CSR); disclosure regulation; real effects; Directive 2014/95; European Union (EU); Non-financial reporting directive (NFRD)

JEL Classification: G18, G38, K22, K32, L21, M14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Fiechter, Peter and Hitz, Joerg-Markus and Lehmann, Nico, Real Effects of a Widespread CSR Reporting Mandate: Evidence from the European Union’s CSR Directive (February 4, 2022). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3725603 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3725603
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
References , Industries
Annual Report Posted: 2014
A Abadie
Using Synthetic Controls: Feasibility, Data Requirements, and Methodological Aspects
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 391 - 425 Posted: 2021
A Abadie , A Diamond , J Hainmueller
Synthetic Control Methods for Comparative Case Studies: Estimating the Effect of California's Tobacco Control Program
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 105 , issue 490 , p. 493 - 505 Posted: 2010
A Abadie , J Gardeazabal
The Economic Costs of Conflict: A Case Study of the Basque Country
American Economic Review , volume 93 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 132 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,470
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,704
RANK
13,234
107 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies