Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Re-Conceptualize and Re-Integrate Climate Finance Into Society Through Ecological Accounting?

37 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2020 Last revised: 1 Dec 2020

Alexandre Rambaud

University of Paris-Saclay - AgroParisTech; CIRED, International Research Center on Environment & Development, France; Université Paris Dauphine

Hugues Chenet

IESEG School of Management; University College London - UCL Institute for Sustainable Resources; Chair Energy and Prosperity

Date Written: October 15, 2020

Abstract

In this paper, we argue that current finance, and the prevailing fair value accounting system, is disconnected from companies and from strong sustainability requirements, making it difficult to develop a climate finance system that is operational and aligned with the challenges of climate preservation. Based on this observation, we propose an exploratory and theoretical study which introduces how and why a particular and innovative ecological accounting approach, the CARE model, currently called upon by a growing number of practitioners and researchers, is a relevant framework to re-conceptualize the issue of climate finance. From a theoretical point of view, CARE offers a suitable language for structuring the issues of ecological costs, debts and conservation and associated financing. From a practical point of view, it offers a methodological support that can be used to address these issues, from an accounting and management point of view as well as from an investor's point of view, ensuring compliance with the Paris Agreements 2°C goal in particular.

Keywords: climate finance, natural capital, historical cost accounting, corporate finance, ecological accounting

JEL Classification: Q57, Q56, M4, G3, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Rambaud, Alexandre and Chenet, Hugues, How to Re-Conceptualize and Re-Integrate Climate Finance Into Society Through Ecological Accounting? (October 15, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3725538 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3725538
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
J.-D Abel , M Blanc
Aiming for a sustainable bioeconomy Posted: 2017
Y Altukhova
Comptabilité agricole et développement durable: Etude comparative de la Russie et de la France Posted: 2013
N Ameli , P Drummond , A Bisaro , M Grubb , H Chenet
Climate finance and disclosure for institutional investors: why transparency is not enough
Climatic Change , volume 160 , issue 4 , p. 565 - 589 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Amf
Retrieved from Finance durable : l'AMF crée une commission Climat et finance durable website Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
443
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,059
RANK
149,830
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies