Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is There a Trade-Off between Accrual-Based and Real Earnings Management Activities in the Presence of (Fe) Male Auditors?

Owusu, A., Zalata, A., Omoteso K. & Elamer, A. A. (2020) Is There a Trade-Off between Accrual-Based and Real Earnings Management Activities in the Presence of (Fe) Male Auditors? Journal of Business Ethics

40 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2020

Andrews Owusu

University of Derby - Derby Business School

Alaa Zalata

University of Southampton - Southampton Business School

Kamil Omoteso

University of Derby

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Date Written: November 5, 2020

Abstract

Prior research suggests that the presence of high quality auditors (i.e. proxied by audit firm characteristics) constrains accrual-based earnings management, but it inadvertently leads to higher real activities manipulation. We investigate whether such trade-off exists between accrual-based and real earnings management activities in the presence of female or male auditors. We use a sample of UK firms for the period 2009 to 2016 and find that firms audited by female auditors do not resort to a higher level real activities manipulation when their ability to engage in accruals management is constrained. Overall, our results suggest that the benefits of hiring female auditors (i.e. less accrual-based earnings management) are overwhelmingly higher than the costs they might bring to the client firms (i.e. higher real activities manipulation).

Keywords: Auditor Gender; Abnormal Accruals; Real Activities

Suggested Citation:

Owusu, Andrews and Zalata, Alaa and Omoteso, Kamil and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed, Is There a Trade-Off between Accrual-Based and Real Earnings Management Activities in the Presence of (Fe) Male Auditors? (November 5, 2020). Owusu, A., Zalata, A., Omoteso K. & Elamer, A. A. (2020) Is There a Trade-Off between Accrual-Based and Real Earnings Management Activities in the Presence of (Fe) Male Auditors? Journal of Business Ethics , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3725511
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,189
RANK
386,825
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies