Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Military Managers and Earnings Management

Kyklos, 2023 forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2020 Last revised: 2 Mar 2023

Li Lai

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Hanyi Tian

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Zhi Wang

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Frank Yu

China Europe International Business School

Date Written: March 2, 2023

Abstract

In a developing market, where the ownership is highly concentrated and the central governance issue is the conflict between majority and minority shareholders, how do managers with previous military experience (military managers) affect the quality of financial reporting? We use a sample of Chinese listed firms over period 2006-2016, with a total of 16,010 firm-year observations. Our results suggest that firms with military managers are associated with higher levels of earnings management, through both accrual-based and real-activities manipulations. Those firms are more susceptible to financial restatements, qualified audit opinions, and penalties for violation. To alleviate endogeneity problems, we use both the instrumental variable regression and propensity score matching, and our results are robust. In addition, the effect of military managers is more pronounced in state-owned firms and firms with weak internal control systems. These findings improve our understanding of the link between managerial traits and financial reporting decisions, in an environment where the major governance issue is the conflict between majority and minority shareholders.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Earnings management, Military experience

JEL Classification: G30, M41, J24

Suggested Citation:

Lai, Li and Tian, Hanyi and Wang, Zhi and Yu, Frank, Military Managers and Earnings Management (March 2, 2023). Kyklos, 2023 forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3725580 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3725580
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
A Abadie , D Drukker , J L Herr , G W Imbens
Implementing matching estimators for average treatment effects in Stata
Stata Journal , volume 4 , issue 3 , p. 209 - 311 Posted: 2004
M Abolhassani , Z Wang , J De Haan
How does government control affect firm value? New evidence for China
Kyklos , volume 73 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 21 Posted: 2020
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management , volume 59 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
243
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,410
RANK
287,617
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies