Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customer Concentration and Income Smoothing Activities

Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance

55 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2021 Last revised: 30 Mar 2023

Boochun Jung

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Tae Wook Kim

City University of Hong Kong (CityU); University of Texas at Dallas; The University of Hong Kong

Sang Hyun Park

Augusta University

Sung Wook Yoon

California State University, Northridge

Date Written: January 11, 2023

Abstract

We examine how customer concentration affects managers’ income smoothing incentives to signal their private information about risk and future earnings. We find a negative relation between customer concentration and income smoothing, suggesting that improved information sharing from suppliers to customers through private channels reduces managers’ incentives to smooth earnings. To mitigate endogeneity issues, we perform (1) a change in variables analysis, (2) a propensity score matching approach, and (3) a two-stage least squares regression analysis. Lastly, we document that managers’ income smoothing activities decrease as the length of the relationship between a supplier and its major customers increases, corroborating our main findings. Prior studies have paid relatively little attention to the effects of various stakeholders, especially customers, on managers’ income smoothing activities. Our study fills this void in the literature by illustrating that customer concentration is an important determinant of income smoothing incentives.

Keywords: Customer concentration, Supplier-customer relationship, Income smoothing, Information sharing, Future earnings response coefficient

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Jung, Boochun and Kim, Tae Wook and Park, Sang Hyun and Yoon, Sung Wook, Customer Concentration and Income Smoothing Activities (January 11, 2023). Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3728340 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3728340
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
K Ahern , J Harford
The importance of industry links in merger waves
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 2 , p. 527 - 576 Posted: 2014
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, Institutional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
B Ak , P Patatoukas
Customer-base concentration and inventory efficiencies: Evidence from the manufacturing sector , volume 25 , p. 258 - 272 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
332
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,497
RANK
207,451
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies