Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Readability of Target Firm’ Annual Reports Matter to Bidders?

Working Paper

66 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2020 Last revised: 10 Jan 2022

Balasingham Balachandran

Monash University - Monash University Malaysia; Financial Research Network (FIRN); La Trobe University - School of Economics and Finance

Robert W. Faff

Corvinus University Budapest; University of Queensland; Bond University

Kristina Minnick

Bentley University

Syed Shams

University of Southern Queensland

Date Written: September 06, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of target firms' annual report readability on acquirers' negotiation strategies and stock market reactions to mergers and acquisitions (M&A). Higher readability is positively associated with bidders' market reactions and bid premiums and negatively related to the time needed to complete the deal. However, while readability improves market reactions, higher bid premiums reduce these gains. The results are robust, accounting for endogeneity using instrumental variable analysis and sample selection bias through propensity score matching and entropy balancing. The effects of readability on market reactions and bid premiums are more pronounced in non-tender offers, deals involving bidders without top legal teams, and target firms with higher information asymmetry (lower analyst following) and uncertainty (higher R&D intensity). Overall, this study highlights that the readability of target firms' financial reports enhances transparency and signals firm quality, making it an important factor for acquirers in evaluating M&A opportunities.

Keywords: Acquisition Performance, Mergers and Acquisitions, Information Asymmetry, Annual Report Readability

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Balachandran, Balasingham and Faff, Robert W. and Minnick, Kristina and Shams, Syed, Does the Readability of Target Firm’ Annual Reports Matter to Bidders? (September 06, 2024). Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3730737 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3730737
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
J W Allen , G M Phillips
Corporate equity ownership, strategic alliances, and product market relationships
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2791 - 2815 Posted: 2000
A M Arikan , R M Stulz
Corporate acquisitions, diversification, and the firm's life cycle
Journal of Finance , volume 71 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 194 Posted: 2016
P Asquith , M B Mikhail , A S Au
Information content of equity analyst reports
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 75 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 282 Posted: 2005
C Bailey , J J Filzen
Audit committee member busyness and risk factor disclosure
The British Accounting Review Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
296
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,871
RANK
234,984
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies