Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contract Features and the Informativeness of Insider Trades

43 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2021

Brian D. Cadman

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Máté Széles

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management

Date Written: November 18, 2020

Abstract

Economic theory predicts that insiders reveal private information when they trade equity in their firm. However, insider purchases to meet equity holding requirements or sales to satisfy liquidity needs do not reveal private information. We predict that contract terms stipulating CEO equity holdings and vesting conditions help market participants unravel the private information revealed by an insider trade. In support of our predictions, we document that the market reaction to a CEO equity trade is greater when the CEO holds a large portfolio of unconstrained equity in the firm. We also find that the one-year abnormal return following a CEO equity sale is significantly more negative when the CEO holds a large portfolio of unconstrained equity. Collectively, we show that publicly disclosed contract features provide context that help investors interpret the information revealed by insider trades and unravel private information.

Keywords: executive compensation, insider trading

JEL Classification: G30, G34, K22, M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Cadman, Brian D. and Széles, Máté, Contract Features and the Informativeness of Insider Trades (November 18, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3732761 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3732761
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Agrawal , T Cooper
Insider trading before accounting scandals
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 34 , p. 169 - 190 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Agrawal , T Nasser
Insider trading in takeover targets
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 598 - 625 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C Armstrong , J E Core , W R Guay
Why do CEOs hold so much equity? Working Paper Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
984
RANK
461,853
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies