Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social and Environmental Reporting, Sustainable Development and Institutional Voids: Evidence from a Developing Country

Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management (2020)

35 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2020

Ibrahem Alshbili

The Libyan Audit Bureau,Department of Corporate Governance, Dahra Squire, Tripoli, Libya

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Maha Moustafa

Open University, UK

Date Written: November 17, 2020

Abstract

This study adopts the concept of institutional voids to examine the perceptions of managers and policymakers in developing markets with respect to the actual barriers that hinder social and environmental reporting (SER) towards sustainable development. The study uses in-depth semi-structured interviews with managers and decision-makers and policymakers of the main oil and gas companies in weak institutional settings (Libya). The findings suggest that the absence of environment general authority’s role, the absence of a clear legal requirement that refers to SER, the shortage of knowledge and awareness, the lack of motivation from the government, fear of change, and the absence of civil society organisations are perceived as the major barriers that hinder the development of SER. These findings contribute to the literature on institutional voids and sustainable development by providing evidence on SER barriers in the context of a developing country. Therefore, it could be useful to corporate regulators and policymakers to mitigate institutional voids to develop a more focussed SER agenda, when considering regulations for the disclosure and sustainable development.

Keywords: Social and environmental reporting; reporting barriers; sustainable development; institutional voids; oil and gas industry; environmental policy; developing countries

Suggested Citation:

Alshbili, Ibrahem and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Moustafa, Maha, Social and Environmental Reporting, Sustainable Development and Institutional Voids: Evidence from a Developing Country (November 17, 2020). Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3732179 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3732179
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
Hussein A. Abdou , Nouran N. Ellelly , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Khaled Hussainey , Hassan Yazdifar
Corporate Governance and Earnings Management Nexus: Evidence from the UK and Egypt Using Neural Networks
International Journal of Finance & Economics, Forthcoming Pages: 48 Posted: 14 Jul 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C A Adams
The Ethical, Social and Environmental Reporting-Performance Portrayal gap
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 17 , issue 5 , p. 731 - 757 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M Adhikariparajul , A Hassan , M Fletcher , A A Elamer
Integrated reporting in UK higher education institutions. Sustainability Accounting
Management and Policy Journal, Forthcoming Posted: 2019
Crossref
N S M Ahmad
Corporate Environmental Disclosure in Libya: Evidence and Environmental Determinism Theory. (PhD) Posted: 2004
Load more
1 Citations
Abeer Hassan , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Suman Lodh , Lee Roberts , Monomita Nandy
The Future of Non-Financial Businesses Reporting: Learning from the COVID-19 Pandemic
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management 2021 · 22 Pages · Posted: 14 Apr 2021 · Downloads: 149
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
797
RANK
718,946
1 Citations
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies