Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of CSR Reputation and CSR Crisis Response Strategy on Investor Judgments

Goh, Clarence, The Effects of CSR Reputation and CSR Crisis Response Strategy on Investor Judgments. Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research, Forthcoming

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2021-136

48 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2021

Clarence Goh

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: November 18, 2020

Abstract

I use a controlled experiment to examine, in the context of CSR crises, whether investors’ investment judgments are influenced by a firm’s CSR reputation and CSR crisis response strategy. I find that for good CSR reputation firms, the use of a rebuild or deny crisis response strategy does not lead to improvements in investment judgments. However, for bad CSR reputation firms, the use of a deny response strategy leads to improvements in investment judgments while the use of a rebuild strategy does not.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, crisis response strategy, reputation, crisis, corporate communication

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Goh, Clarence, The Effects of CSR Reputation and CSR Crisis Response Strategy on Investor Judgments (November 18, 2020). Goh, Clarence, The Effects of CSR Reputation and CSR Crisis Response Strategy on Investor Judgments. Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research, Forthcoming, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2021-136, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3732628
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Accs &amp; Eurosif
What do investors expect from non-financial reporting? Posted: 2013-07
R Ahluwalia , R E Burnkrant , H R Unnava
Consumer response to negative publicity: the moderating role of commitment
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 37 , p. 203 - 214 Posted: 2000
Crossref
W Ashford
UK firms could face £122bn in data breach fines in Posted: 2016
Computerweekly
Posted: 2017-04-03
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
778
RANK
475,518
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies