Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stealth Acquisitions and Product Market Competition

Journal of Finance, Forthcoming

112 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2021 Last revised: 4 Jun 2023

John D. Kepler

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Vic Naiker

University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics

Christopher R. Stewart

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: June 3, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether and how firms structure their merger and acquisition deals (M&As) to avoid antitrust scrutiny. There are approximately 40% more M&As than expected just below deal value thresholds that trigger antitrust review. These “stealth acquisitions” tend to involve financial and governance contract terms that afford greater scope for negotiating and assigning lower deal values. We also show that the equity values, gross margins, and product prices of acquiring firms and their competitors increase following such acquisitions. Our results suggest that acquirers manipulate M&As to avoid antitrust scrutiny, thereby benefiting their own shareholders but potentially harming other corporate stakeholders.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Antitrust, Rivals, Product Market Competition

JEL Classification: G34, G38, K21, L12, L41

Suggested Citation:

Kepler, John and Naiker, Vic and Stewart, Christopher R., Stealth Acquisitions and Product Market Competition (June 3, 2023). Journal of Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3733994 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3733994
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Jason Abrevaya
The equivalence of two estimators of the fixed effects logit model
Economics Letters , volume 55 , p. 41 - 43 Posted: 1997
Anup Agrawal , Jeffrey Jaffe , Gershon Mandelker
The post-merger performance of acquiring firms: A re-examination of an anomaly
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , p. 1605 - 1621 Posted: 1992
Paul Asquith
Merger bids, uncertainty, and stockholder returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 11 , p. 51 - 83 Posted: 1983
José Azar , Martin Schmalz , Isabel Tecu
Anticompetitive effects of common ownership
Journal of Finance , volume 73 , p. 1513 - 1565 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,073
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,594
RANK
47,381
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies