Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The ICFR Process: Perspectives of Accounting Executives at Large Public Companies

63 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2021 Last revised: 27 Dec 2022

Eldar Maksymov

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Jeffrey S. Pickerd

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

T. Jeffrey Wilks

Brigham Young University

Devin Williams

University of Oklahoma

Date Written: December 24, 2022

Abstract

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act charges management with the primary responsibility for
internal controls over financial reporting (ICFR). However, prior research tells us little about the
ICFR process from management’s perspective. We develop a theoretical model of the ICFR
process from management’s perspective and examine that model by surveying 145 and
interviewing 35 accounting executives at large U.S. public companies. Our primary finding is that
executives feel constrained in their ability to direct ICFR and hold perspectives that reflect these
constraints. Specifically, most executives feel compelled by auditors to follow the PCAOB’s
preferences even though executives believe these preferences often tend to distract management
and auditors from riskier areas. Executives also believe that audit committees’ involvement in
ICFR is too passive and that auditors’ assessments are sometimes too severe, prompting executives
to push back on auditors. Overall, executives strive to make decisions that are optimal for their
ICFR, but limited resources and other business conditions such as restructuring events and lack of
qualified personnel limit the effectiveness of their ICFR efforts. We discuss the implications of
our results for practitioners, regulators, and researchers.

Keywords: ICFR, internal controls, accounting executives, COSO, auditors, audit committees

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Maksymov, Eldar M. and Pickerd, Jeffrey Scott and Wilks, Thomas Jeffrey and Williams, Devin, The ICFR Process: Perspectives of Accounting Executives at Large Public Companies (December 24, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3733945 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3733945
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
Audit Analytics (AA). 2021. SOX 404 Disclosures. A Seventeen-Year Review
J L Abernathy , M Barnes , C Stefaniak
A summary of 10 years of PCAOB research: What have we learned
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 30 - 60 Posted: 2013
A A Acito , J J Anderson , M J Beck
PCAOB inspection deficiency type and information about audit quality. Working paper Posted: 2020
S Aghazadeh , M K Dodgson , Y J Kang , Y J , M Peytcheva
Revealing Oz: Institutional work shaping auditors' national office consultations
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 974 - 1008 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
374
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,848
RANK
181,854
4 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies