Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental Disclosure Quality and Risk: the Moderating Effect of Corporate Governance

Rezaee, Z., Alipour, M., Faraji, O., Ghanbari, M., & Jamshidinavid, B. (2020). Environmental Disclosure Quality and Risk: the Moderating Effect of Corporate Governance. Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal.

Posted: 23 Dec 2020

Zabihollah Rezaee

University of Memphis - School of Accountancy

Mohammad Alipour

Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Khalkhal Branch

Omid Faraji

Faculty of Management and Accounting, College of Farabi; University of Tehran

Mehrdad Ghanbari

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Babak Jamshidinavid

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 19, 2020

Abstract

Purpose: The purpose of this article is to investigate the relationship between environmental disclosure quality (EDQ) and risk and to further examine whether corporate governance (CG) practices moderate this relationship.

Design/methodology/approach: This study uses a set of unique, hand collected data (from 2011 to 2016) to measure EDQ for a sample of 762 firm-years Iranian listed companies. Ordinary least squares regression analysis is performed in testing hypotheses after controlling for a variety of firm, industry and year effects. Moreover, several analyses are performed to establish the robustness of the findings.

Findings: The results indicate a negative association between EDQ and firm risk. While board independence moderates this relationship, other CG practices such as CEO duality and board size do not show any effects on the relationship between EDQ and risk. The results remain robust after performing sensitivity tests and under various specifications, including the fixed-effects panel data and Heckman two-stage regressions.

Research limitations/implications: Results are from a sample of firms from one country.

Practical implications: The results have implications for policymakers, legislators and corporate executives, as environmental initiatives are gaining more attention worldwide.

Social implications: Sustainability initiatives in the areas of environmental and social performance and disclosure are gaining global attention. This study addresses the link between firm risk and EDQ.

Originality/value: This study contributes to the literature by shedding light on the relationship between corporate risk-taking and EDQ in the context of a developing economy.

Keywords: Emerging Markets, Corporate Social Responsibility, Corporate Governance, Risk, Corporate Environmental Reporting

Suggested Citation:

Rezaee, Zabihollah and Alipour, Mohammad and Faraji, Omid and Ghanbari, Mehrdad and Jamshidinavid, Babak, Environmental Disclosure Quality and Risk: the Moderating Effect of Corporate Governance (November 19, 2020). Rezaee, Z., Alipour, M., Faraji, O., Ghanbari, M., & Jamshidinavid, B. (2020). Environmental Disclosure Quality and Risk: the Moderating Effect of Corporate Governance. Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3733823
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
667
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies