Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationships between Environmental Risk, Environmental Disclosure, and Firm Performance

17 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2020

Farasha V. V. Abdel Jaleel

Qatar University

A. A. Ousama

Qatar University

Date Written: August 1, 2016

Abstract

Environmental protection and sustainable development is one of the widely discussed corporate issues in today’s world economy. However, the number of compulsory environmental disclosures laws is very limited. Therefore, companies choose to provide disclosures on environmental issues voluntarily. This study examines the effect of environmental risk on environmental disclosure of Qatari listed companies. Additionally, it investigates the impact of environmental disclosure on firm performance (i.e. ROE and net profit margin). 42 listed companies in Qatar exchange has been selected as the sample and descriptive statistics, correlations analysis, and regression analysis were used. The environmental disclosure was measured by a disclosure index consists of 20 items. The results indicate that there is a positive relationship between environmental risk and environmental disclosure. Whereas, there is no significant relationship between environmental disclosure and firm performance.

Keywords: Environmental risk, environmental disclosure, firm performance, ROE, net profit margin, Qatar, listed companies

Suggested Citation:

Abdel Jaleel, Farasha V. V. and Ousama, A. A., The Relationships between Environmental Risk, Environmental Disclosure, and Firm Performance (August 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3734497 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3734497
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
W Aerts , D Cormier
Media legitimacy and corporate environmental Communication. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 2 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S Aintablian , P A Mcgraw , G S Roberts
Bank monitoring and environmental risk
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 389 - 401 Posted: 2007
Crossref
H Alnaimi , M Hossain , M Momin
Corporate social responsibility reporting in Qatar: a descriptive analysis
Social Responsibility Journal , volume 8 , issue 4 , p. 511 - 526 Posted: 2012
A Al-Swidi , F Fadzil , Y Al-Matari
The Impact of Board Characteristics on Firm Performance: Evidence from Nonfinancial Listed Companies in Kuwaiti Stock Exchange
International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 310 - 332 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
501
RANK
812,529
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies