Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
LGBTQ Workplace Inclusion before and after Obergefell V. Hodges: Association with Tobin’s Q and ROA

Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy, 21(4): 481-514 (2020)

34 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2020

Benjamin P. Foster

University of Louisville

Andrew Manikas

University of Louisville

Dianna Preece

University of Louisville - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: November 21, 2020

Abstract

Diversity and inclusion advocates claim organizations benefit from diversity. Diversity is purportedly associated with many positive outcomes such as increased creativity, reduced turnover, increased productivity, a broader talent pool from which to choose, improved employee performance, increased innovation, potentially new customers and, ultimately, higher profits. Many studies support that claim, finding evidence that diversity is associated with higher company returns and market values. We examine if the association of company LGBTQ-benefits and policies with corporate returns and market value changed in the years around the 2015 Supreme Court ruling in Obergefell v. Hodges that legalized same-sex marriage nationally. The Corporate Equality Index (CEI), calculated and reported by the Human Rights Campaign (HRC.org 2020a), is used as a proxy for the level of company LGBTQ inclusiveness and support. The CEI is meant to provide a tool to rate U.S. businesses on their treatment of LGBTQ employees, investors and consumers, thereby focusing on a different aspect of diversity than simply defining diversity based on gender and/or race and ethnicity. Results indicate that higher HRC CEI ratings appear to be associated with higher Tobin’s q, a measure of long-term corporate performance. We find similar results for three time periods, pre-Obergefell, during the Supreme Court decision year, and post-Obergefell. These results indicate that diversity policies toward the LGBTQ community are associated with higher company market value, regardless of how uniformly US law has regarded same-sex marriage.

Keywords: Tobin’s q, LGBTQ, Corporate Equality Index, diversity, Obergefell

JEL Classification: G32, M12, M14, M52

Suggested Citation:

Foster, Benjamin P. and Manikas, Andrew and Preece, Dianna, LGBTQ Workplace Inclusion before and after Obergefell V. Hodges: Association with Tobin’s Q and ROA (November 21, 2020). Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy, 21(4): 481-514 (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3735095
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Jay Barney
Firm Resources and Sustained Competitive Advantage
Journal of Management , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 120 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Jian Cao , Kimberly Ellis , Mingxiang Li
Inside the Board Room: The Influence of Nationality and Cultural Diversity on Cross-border Merger and Acquisition Outcomes
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 53 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 2018
Crossref
David Carter , D&apos; Frank , Betty J Souza , W Gary Simpkins , Simpson
The Gender and Ethnic Diversity of U.S. Boards and Board Committees and Firm Financial Performance
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 18 , issue 5 , p. 396 - 414 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Andreas Charitou , Irene Karamanou , Neophytos Lambertides
Who are the Losers of IFRS Adoption in Europe? an Empirical Examination of the Cash Flow Effect of Increased Disclosure
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 150 - 180 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
702
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,085
RANK
84,343
12 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies