Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate Governance on Financial Management of Public Secondary Schools in Kenya: A Case of Siaya County

79 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2021

Thomas Midialo

United States International University - Africa

Date Written: May 05, 2017

Abstract

This study sought to investigate the impact of corporate governance on financial management of public secondary schools in Kenya. The specific objectives of the study were to: To establish the impact of the board composition on financial management of secondary schools, to establish the composition of board skills on the financial management of public secondary schools, and to analyze how the application of corporate governance principles impacts the financial management of public secondary schools.

This study was undertaken among the 41 secondary schools in Siaya County the target population comprised of 205 respondents who were either Chairman. Treasures, parent teacher association member, board of governor member or auditor in the respective institution. Using stratified sampling a sample size of 137 was arrived at although only 110 responded giving an 80% response rate which was considered sufficient. Questionnaires was used as a data collection tool and using SPSS version 20, the descriptive and inferential statistics was computed.

The analysis revealed that majority were aware of budgeting practices in schools and as board member, they oversee supply chain management, movable asset management and control. It was also noted that the members prioritize on use of scarce resources to ensure effective stewardship over public money and assets and most of the respondents were actively involved in planning and implementation of the financial plan, accounting and reporting on funds management. A positive correlation was established thus a positive change in board composition led to a positive change in financial management.

The findings also revealed that presence of accounting knowledge was vital in order to improve financial management in schools and the board had illustrated governance expertise in the last five year. It was also established tenure of board member affected financial management and all members had information on projects undertaken by the school. Positive correlation revealed that with every positive change in board skills there is a positive change in financial management.

Lastly the findings revealed that management and board of director’s are efficient and have capacity to perform their duties properly and it was also established that there are set rules and policies that generate information on roles and responsibilities. The members were also found to be able to effectively manage issues of procurement, allocation and control of financial resources although there was no clear response on difficulties in managing large volumes of paper work. Positive correlation revealed that with every positive change in corporate governance there is a positive change in financial management.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Public Secondary School

Suggested Citation:

Midialo, Thomas, The Impact of Corporate Governance on Financial Management of Public Secondary Schools in Kenya: A Case of Siaya County (May 05, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3735286 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3735286
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
128 References
R B Adams , S &amp;merhan
Bank board structure and performance: Evidence for large bank holding companies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 21 , p. 243 - 267 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of directors characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , issue 2-3 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
713
RANK
514,660
128 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies