Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revisiting Acquirer Returns: Evidence From Unanticipated Deals

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2021

Abongeh A. Tunyi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 23, 2020

Abstract

This paper examines the implications of market anticipation of impending merger and acquisition (M&A) deals on the assessment of acquirer wealth effects through event study methods. We find evidence suggesting that prior studies have understated the gains to acquirers. The documented negative or near-zero abnormal returns to acquirers appears to be confined to sub-samples of highly-anticipated deals. By contrast, unanticipated acquirers gain significantly from M&As, achieving average cumulative abnormal returns of 5.4% to 7.5% in the seven days around the bid announcement. Empirically, we show that market anticipation partly explains (1) the documented low returns to acquirers, (2) the positive abnormal return spillover to close rivals of acquirers, and (3) the declining returns to serial acquirers across successive deals. Overall, our study provides evidence against several stylised facts and sheds light on the puzzle that M&A activity persists despite recurrent research findings that they do not create value for acquirers.

Keywords: Event studies,Takeovers, Market anticipation, Rivals, Serial acquirers

Suggested Citation:

Tunyi, Abongeh A., Revisiting Acquirer Returns: Evidence From Unanticipated Deals (November 23, 2020). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3736280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
J Cai , M H Song , R A Walkling
Anticipation, acquisitions, and bidder returns: Industry shocks and the transfer of information across rivals
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 24 , issue 7 , p. 2242 - 2285 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M M Carhart
On persistence in mutual fund performance
The Journal of Finance , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 82 Posted: 1997
Crossref
S Chang
Takeovers of privately held targets, methods of payment, and bidder returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 773 - 784 Posted: 1998
Crossref
R Comment , G Schwert
Poison or placebo? Evidence on the deterrence and wealth effects of modern antitakeover measures
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 43 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,391
RANK
390,788
15 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies