Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Short-Term Thinking Destroying Capitalism? Vignettes for Teaching Business Ethics

Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy 21(4): 515-554 (2020)

40 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2020

Hershey H. Friedman

City University of New York (CUNY) - Koppelman School of Business; CUNY Brooklyn College

Miriam Gerstein

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Sholom Schochet

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Sarah Hertz

State University of New York (SUNY), Empire State College

Date Written: November 23, 2020

Abstract

This paper will provide faculty who are interested in teaching ethics with several vignettes that may be easily incorporated into any course. The purpose of these real-life, brief vignettes is to encourage students to think about the consequences of decisions. Sometimes, focusing on profits and ignoring the ethical implications may have far-reaching consequences. Whereas some cases used in business ethics courses aim to do this, this paper provides numerous brief vignettes to show the considerable consequences of unethical and neglectful conduct in running an organization.

Keywords: Business Ethics, Unethical Marketing, Unethical Ethicists, Harassment of Workers, Opioid Epidemic, Marketing of Sugary Beverages, E-cigarettes, Boeing’s 737 Max, Takata Airbags, ExxonMobil, and Climate Change

JEL Classification: P12, M31, J81, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Friedman, Hershey H. and Gerstein, Miriam and Schochet, Sholom and Hertz, Sarah, Is Short-Term Thinking Destroying Capitalism? Vignettes for Teaching Business Ethics (November 23, 2020). Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy 21(4): 515-554 (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3736279
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
D Altmyer , S Yang , K Schallenkamp , R Debeaumont
Student ethical awareness and business program matriculation: Evidence from the U
S. Business Education and Administration , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 49 Posted: 2011
F Bastiat
Selected Essays on Political Economy Posted: 1964
M H Bazerman , F Gino
Behavioral ethics: Toward a deeper understanding of moral judgment and dishonesty
Annual Review of Law and Social Science , volume 8 , p. 85 - 104 Posted: 2012-12
Crossref
M H Bazerman , A E Tenbrusel
Ethical breakdowns
Harvard Business Review , p. 58 - 65 Posted: 2011-04
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
926
RANK
409,437
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Cognition & Culture: Culture, Communication, Design, Ethics, Morality, Religion, Rhetoric, & Semiotics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies