Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Efficiency Gains from Accounting Regulatory Compliance

51 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2020 Last revised: 26 Dec 2023

Chandrani Chatterjee

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 8, 2023

Abstract

Using the recent lease accounting standard change (ASC-842), I examine whether the process of complying with new accounting standards has positive spillover effects on operating efficiency through managerial learning. To separate managerial learning from the potential benefits of enhanced disclosures, I exploit the relatively long transition period (2017-2018), wherein managers have access to new lease-related information that has not been disclosed to the market. I find that firms with a high proportion of operating leases experience an increase in profitability and a reduction in operating leases during the transition-period relative to other firms. I document that the results are not driven by substitution to capital leases or the purchase of PPE. Additional analyses reveal that the results are concentrated in firms with poor internal information environments and high business complexity. My results support the claim that the information generated through the compliance process can lead to efficiency gains.

Keywords: Operating Leases, Efficiency, Regulation

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chatterjee, Chandrani, Efficiency Gains from Accounting Regulatory Compliance (August 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3736028 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3736028
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
D Aboody
Recognition versus disclosure in the oil and gas industry
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , p. 21 - 32 Posted: 1996
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
G S Bae , S U Choi , D S Dhaliwal , P T Lamoreaux
Auditors and client investment efficiency
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 19 - 40 Posted: 2017
J Barrios , P Lisowsky , M Minnis
Measurement Matters: Financial Reporting and Productivity Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
570
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,225
RANK
108,519
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies