Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Affecting the Voluntary Disclosure: A Study by Using Smart PLS-SEM Approach

Md. Abdur Rouf, M. Akhtaruddin, (2018) "Factors affecting the voluntary disclosure: a study by using smart PLS-SEM approach", International Journal of Law and Management, Vol. 60 Issue: 6, pp.1498-1508,

Posted: 4 Feb 2021

Prof. Dr. Md. Abdur Rouf

Daffodil International University

M Akhtaruddin

Institute of Business Administration(IBA)

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

Purpose – This paper aims to examine the factors affecting the voluntary disclosure in the annual reports of listed companies in Bangladesh.

Design/methodology/approach – The study is based on a sample of 96 listed non-financial companies in Dhaka Stock Exchanges over the period of 2013 to 2016. The study used partial least squares structural equation modeling tool to analyze data which provides evidence of reliability and validity. It also used an unweighted relative disclosure index for measuring voluntary disclosure.

Findings – The empirical results show that corporate governance (board leadership structure and ownership structures) and firms characteristics (total assets and total sales) are significantly positive correlated with the voluntary disclosure.

Originality/value – The finding of the study will be a bench mark or the board for policy makers and implementers in torching the avenues of improvement in raising the level of corporate voluntary disclosure in annual reports of listed companies in Bangladesh.

Keywords: Structural Equation Modelling, Corporate Governance, Voluntary Disclosure, Dhaka Stock Exchanges

Suggested Citation:

Rouf, Prof. Dr. Md. Abdur and Akhtaruddin, M, Factors Affecting the Voluntary Disclosure: A Study by Using Smart PLS-SEM Approach (2018). Md. Abdur Rouf, M. Akhtaruddin, (2018) "Factors affecting the voluntary disclosure: a study by using smart PLS-SEM approach", International Journal of Law and Management, Vol. 60 Issue: 6, pp.1498-1508,, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3736892
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
467
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies