Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Reporting in Bangladesh

Rouf, M.A. and Aktaruddin, M.(2019) Corporate Governance Reporting in Bangladesh, International Journal of Ethics and Systems,36(1),42-57

Posted: 4 Feb 2021

Prof. Dr. Md. Abdur Rouf

Daffodil International University

M Akhtaruddin

Institute of Business Administration(IBA)

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

Purpose – This study aims to investigate the extent and nature of corporate governance reporting (CGR) in corporate annual reports of Bangladesh. The aim of the study to test empirically the relationship between corporate governance (CG) and CGR by the listed companies in Bangladesh. The CG examined the proportion of independent directors, board leadership structure, board size, ownership structure and audit committee size.

Design/methodology/approach – The study is based on a sample of 86 listed non-financial companies in Dhaka stock exchanges (DSE) from the period of 2015-2017 and all the companies are selected by judgment Sampling. The study has been used as an unweighted relative disclosure index for measuring CGR.

Findings – The empirical results indicate that board leadership structure (BLS) is positively associated with the level of CGR. In contrast, the percentage of equity owned by the insiders to all equity of the firm is negatively associated with the level of CGR.

Practical implications – Findings of this study have important implications for regulatory authority,
enforcement agencies such as Institute of Cost and Management Accountants of Bangladesh, Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh, Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission, DSE, policymakers, shareholders and others who have an interemaammast in CG.

Originality/value – Finding of the study will be a benchmark for policymakers and implementers in
torching the avenues of improvement in raising the level of CG reporting.

Keywords: Education, Corporate Governance, Experience, DSE, BSEC, CGR

Suggested Citation:

Rouf, Prof. Dr. Md. Abdur and Akhtaruddin, M, Corporate Governance Reporting in Bangladesh (2019). Rouf, M.A. and Aktaruddin, M.(2019) Corporate Governance Reporting in Bangladesh, International Journal of Ethics and Systems,36(1),42-57, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3736899
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
394
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies