Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Short-Selling Threats and Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Regulation SHO

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2020 Last revised: 28 Jan 2025

Johan Maharjan

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI)

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Yijiang Zhao

American University - Kogod School of Business

Date Written: November 2, 2020

Abstract

We examine the effect of short-selling threats on tax avoidance. To establish causality, we exploit a quasi-experimental setting where the U.S. SEC’s Reg SHO pilot program relaxed an essential short-selling constraint for a sample of NYSE-listed pilot stocks, thus causing an exogenous increase in short-selling threats in these stocks. Using quantile regression, we find that the relation between tax avoidance and short-selling threats is significantly negative (positive) when tax avoidance is very high (low). This effect is observable for more opaque firms, firms whose managers have more job-security concerns, and firms whose managers’ equity portfolios are more sensitive to share prices. Our results suggest that short sellers' scrutiny of hidden agency problems underlying extreme tax avoidance would dampen stock price inflation and reduce managers’ welfare, thus motivating managers to reduce extreme tax avoidance in the first place.

Keywords: short-selling threats, agency problems, exogenous shock, extreme tax avoidance, quantile regression, Regulation SHO

JEL Classification: H20, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Maharjan, Johan and Omer, Thomas C. and Zhao, Yijiang, Short-Selling Threats and Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Regulation SHO (November 2, 2020). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3736133 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3736133
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
Akin Gump , Strauss Hauer , & Feld , Llp
SEC revises short-sale rules with adoption of Regulation SHO Posted: 2004
G J Alexander , M A Peterson
Short selling on the New York Stock Exchange and the effects of the uptick rule
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 8 , issue 1-2 , p. 90 - 116 Posted: 1999
G J Alexander , M A Peterson
The effect of price tests on trader behavior and market quality: An analysis of Reg SHO
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 84 - 111 Posted: 2008
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,233
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies