Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bond Covenants, Bankruptcy Risk, and the Cost of Debt

62 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2021

Sattar Mansi

Virginia Tech

Yaxuan Qi

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Economics & Finance

John K. Wald

University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: November 23, 2020

Abstract

Are all covenants equally effective at reducing the bondholder-shareholder conflict? Examining the most frequently used bond covenants, we document that four out of 24 restrictions are associated with significantly higher bankruptcy risk. The use of these Default Indicating covenants can be partly explained by faulty contract design, greater recovery in bankruptcy, or within-creditor conflicts. Firms that use In-House Counsel to help structure their bond issue and those that use Big 4 Auditors are also less likely to include Default Indicating covenants in their bonds. Further tests show that the use of these Default Indicating covenants is associated with higher bond and CDS spreads. Overall, the results help explain the prior evidence on the relation between covenant use and the cost of debt.

Keywords: Survival analysis, Bond covenants, Bankruptcy risk, Cost of debt

JEL Classification: G12, G33, G34

Suggested Citation:

Mansi, Sattar and Qi, Yaxuan and Wald, John K., Bond Covenants, Bankruptcy Risk, and the Cost of Debt (November 23, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3736019 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3736019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
V Acharya , R Sundaram , K John
Cross-country variations in capital structures: The role of bankruptcy codes
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 54 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Barnea , R Haugen , L Senbet
A rationale for debt maturity structure and call provisions in the agency theoretic framework
Journal of Finance , volume 35 , issue 5 , p. 1223 - 1234 Posted: 1980
Crossref
A Beatty , S Liao , S J Weber
Evidence on the determinants and economic consequences of delegated monitoring
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 3 , p. 555 - 576 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
770
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,566
RANK
74,791
5 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies