Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Employee Cash Profit-Sharing and Earnings Management

Forthcoming at European Accounting Review

45 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2021

Dongmin Kong

School of Economics, Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Ni Qin

School of Economics, Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Wei Yang

East China University of Science and Technology (ECUST) - School of Business

Jian Zhang

School of Business and Management, Shanghai International Studies University

Date Written: November 26, 2020

Abstract

This paper examines how a firm’s employment policy, particularly employee cash profit-sharing plans, affects its financial reporting. We find that firms with employee cash profit-sharing programs are more likely to engage in downward earnings management to reduce labor costs, especially with decreasing performance. This effect is more evident in firms with higher labor costs and human-capital reliant firms. Our findings are robust to a variety of model specifications and endogeneity problems.

Keywords: Employee; Stakeholder; Earnings Management; Cash Profit Sharing

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Kong, Dongmin and Qin, Ni and Yang, Wei and Zhang, Jian, Employee Cash Profit-Sharing and Earnings Management (November 26, 2020). Forthcoming at European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3737891
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
L A Bebchuk , K J M Cremers , U C Peyer
The CEO pay slice
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , p. 199 - 221 Posted: 2012
Crossref
D B Bergstresser , T Philippon
CEO incentives and earnings management
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 66 , p. 511 - 529 Posted: 2006
Crossref
F Bova , Y Dou , O Hope
Employee Ownership and Firm Disclosure
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 32 , p. 639 - 673 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Francesco Bova , Yiwei Dou , Ole-Kristian Hope
Health-Insurer Bargaining Power and Firms' Incentives to Manage Earnings: Evidence from an Economic Shock
2015 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2438716, Forthcoming, Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance Pages: 43 Posted: 21 May 2014 Last revised: 14 Jul 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
689
RANK
409,437
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies