Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Lawsuits and CEO Turnover Decisions

39 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2020 Last revised: 30 Dec 2020

Rachel M. Hayes

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Xiaoxia Peng

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Xue Wang

Ohio State University - Fisher College of Business

Date Written: November 29, 2020

Abstract

We study the effect of shareholder litigation rights on CEO turnover policies using U.S. states’ staggered adoption of Universal Demand laws, which restrict shareholder lawsuits that allege a breach of fiduciary duty by directors or managers. We document that reduced shareholder litigation rights are associated with greater CEO turnover-performance sensitivity, and that this effect is more prominent in firms with existing blockholders and higher ex-ante litigation risk. The empirical evidence suggests a substitute relationship between active monitoring through CEO turnover policies and disciplinary shareholder litigation. Our study contributes to the debate on the role of shareholder litigation in corporate governance.

Keywords: CEO Turnover, Shareholder Litigation

JEL Classification: G34, K22, M41, M51

Suggested Citation:

Hayes, Rachel M. and Peng, Xiaoxia and Wang, Xue, Shareholder Lawsuits and CEO Turnover Decisions (November 29, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3739246 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3739246
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Dain C. Donelson , Laura Griffin , John M. McInnis , Sara Toynbee
The Need to Validate Exogenous Shocks: Shareholder Derivative Litigation, Universal Demand Laws and Firm Behavior
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming · 67 Pages · Posted: 30 Sep 2020 · Last revised: 22 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 834
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
286
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,557
RANK
243,598
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies