Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Investors Respond to CEO Facial Expressions of Anger During Television Interviews?

45 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2020

Rachel W. Flam

London Business School

Jeremiah Green

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Nathan Y. Sharp

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: November 2020

Abstract

Televised media interviews with public company CEOs occur nearly every trading day. During these interviews, investors observe visual cues in addition to hearing the verbal information managers disclose. Building on findings in the psychology and communications literature, we ask whether investors learn from CEO facial expressions. Using a sample of 959 interviews on CNBC from 2014-2018, we focus on CEO expressions of anger, an emotion generally associated with negative outcomes. We find that CEOs are more likely to show facial expressions of anger when the CEO is more expressive generally, when the journalist shows an angry facial expression, and when recent stock returns are lower. We also find that investors respond negatively to CEO facial expressions of anger and that CEO anger can nullify the benefits of a positive message from journalists.

Keywords: Facial Expressions, Anger, CEOs, Television Interviews, Machine Learning, CNBC

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49, L82, G10, G14, M10, M12

Suggested Citation:

Flam, Rachel W. and Green, Jeremiah and Sharp, Nathan Y., Do Investors Respond to CEO Facial Expressions of Anger During Television Interviews? (November 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3740755 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3740755
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
A Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial Overconfidence and Accounting Conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Crossref
L M Andersson , C Pearson
Tit for Tat? The Spiraling Effect of Incivility in the Workplace
Academy of Management Review , volume 24 , p. 452 - 471 Posted: 1999
Crossref
M Baas , C K W De Dreu , B A Nijstad
Creative Production by Angry People Peaks Early On, Decreases Over Time, and Is Relatively Unstructured
Journal of Experimental Social Psychology , volume 47 , p. 1107 - 1115 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S Barsade
The Ripple Effect: Emotional Contagion and its Influence on Group Behavior
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 47 , p. 644 - 675 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
752
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,252
RANK
77,309
2 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies