Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Life Cycle and Classification Shifting in Financial Statements: Evidence from Quoted Manufacturing Firms in Nigeria

Abiahu, M.C., Egbunike, P.A., Udeh, F.N., Egbunike, F.C. & Amahalu, N.N. (2019). Corporate life cycle and classification shifting in financial statements: Evidence from quoted manufacturing firms in Nigeria. Amity Business Review, Vol 20(2), 75-91

17 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2021

Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem Abiahu

CIBN Centre for Financial Studies

Amaechi Egbunike

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Dr. Francis Udeh

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Egbunike Francis

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: December 1, 2020

Abstract

The study investigated the relationship between corporate life cycle and classification shifting in the financial statements of quoted conglomerates in Nigeria. Using ex-post facto research design, the population of the study was drawn from quoted manufacturing firms on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). The study was delimited to manufacturing companies using purposive sampling method. The study relied on secondary data; obtained from annual financial reports and accounts of the selected companies. The data were analyzed using descriptive and inferential statistics. The hypotheses were tested using multiple regression techniques. The Dickinson’s (2011) approach was used to determine the life-cycle stage of a firm; while, the McVay (2006) model modified by Athanasakou, Strong, and Walker (2011) was used to calculate core earnings. The study finds a significant negative relationship between life cycle and unexpected core earnings; however, firm size was positive and significant. Thirdly, the cash flows had a non-significant negative relationship with unexpected core earnings. The study, therefore, recommends that capital market regulators should strengthen mechanisms aimed at monitoring the opportunistic behavior of managers. Auditors should be wary of a firm's life-cycle as this may provide an incentive for managers to engage in real earnings management. Cash flow information should be used by investors to gauge the liquidity and working capital posture of their firms because of its less subjective appeal to accrual earnings management.

Keywords: audited financial statements, classification shifting, corporate life cycle

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem and Egbunike, Amaechi and Udeh, Francis and Egbunike, Chinedu and Amahalu, Nestor, Corporate Life Cycle and Classification Shifting in Financial Statements: Evidence from Quoted Manufacturing Firms in Nigeria (December 1, 2020). Abiahu, M.C., Egbunike, P.A., Udeh, F.N., Egbunike, F.C. & Amahalu, N.N. (2019). Corporate life cycle and classification shifting in financial statements: Evidence from quoted manufacturing firms in Nigeria. Amity Business Review, Vol 20(2), 75-91, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3740263
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
M Abiahu , N Amahalu
Effect of taxation on dividend policy of quoted deposit money banks in Nigeria
EPH -International Journal of Business & Management Science , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2006
M C Abiahu , F N Udeh , M E Ogbekhilu
Modeling correlation between shareholders' dividends and corporate performance in Nigeria
Journal of Modern Accounting and Auditing , volume 14 , issue 10 , p. 570 - 581 Posted: 2018
Crossref
J L Abernathy , B Beyer , E T Rapley
Earnings management constraints and classification shifting
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 41 , issue 5-6 , p. 600 - 626 Posted: 2014
Crossref
B R Adesunloro , F N Udeh , M F C Abiahu
Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,070
RANK
291,202
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies