Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of CEO Overconfidence on Profitability and Stock Return: A Firm’s Life Cycle Perspective

47 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2021

Sebahattin Demirkan

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Birendra K. Mishra

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management

Tuba Toksoz

Koc University - College of Administrative Sciences and Economics

Date Written: December 2, 2020

Abstract

We examine how CEO overconfidence impacts profitability and stock return for firms at different stages in their life cycle. Extant research has shown that an overconfident personality could affect the CEO's decision-making on investment, financial reporting, and the firm's choice of policies. It is well known that firms have lifecycle stages as they evolve with time. The firm's evolution is triggered by changes in internal factors like an investment and managerial decisions and external factors such as the evolution of industry and economy. Prior literature posits that life cycle stages have an impact on firms' decision making and profitability. We find that firms with overconfident CEOs perform differently and have abnormal returns depending on the firm's life cycle. Especially they perform better and have positive abnormal returns in growth, mature and shake-out stages if the CEOs are overconfident. We find no significant result for firms in the introduction and decline phases.

Keywords: CEO Overconfidence; Firm life cycle; Profitability; Abnormal return

JEL Classification: M41, E32, M12, G41

Suggested Citation:

Demirkan, Sebahattin and Mishra, Birendra K. and Toksoz, Tuba, The Impact of CEO Overconfidence on Profitability and Stock Return: A Firm’s Life Cycle Perspective (December 2, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3741785 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3741785
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
A Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S Andersen , G W Harrison , M I Lau , E E Rutström
Eliciting risk and time preferences
Econometrica , volume 76 , issue 3 , p. 583 - 618 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J Anthony , K Ramesh
Association between accounting performance measures and stock prices
Journal of Accounting and Economics , p. 203 - 227 Posted: 1992
Crossref
M Alicke
Global self-evaluation as determined by the desirability and controllability of trait adjectives
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 49 , p. 1621 - 1630 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
342
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,714
RANK
200,848
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies