Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managers’ career preferences and corporate culture

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 6 Jan 2021 Last revised: 3 Apr 2024

Margaret A. Abernethy

University of Melbourne, Department of Accounting

Chung-Yu Hung

University of Melbourne

Like Jiang

University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: March 12, 2024

Abstract

Building effective corporate culture is challenging as it requires senior managers to embed shared values within the firm. Yet, some firms can do so, and some cannot. This study examines whether managers’ career preferences influence manager-employee value misalignment and weaken corporate culture. Career preferences for job hopping provide incentives for managers to signal their leadership quality in the labor market. We capture managers’ and employees’ attention allocation across different cultural values using data from conference calls and Glassdoor. We predict and find that job-hopping managers direct their attention away from soft cultural values (e.g., respect and integrity) that are less observable by the external labor market. Furthermore, job-hopping managers who pay insufficient attention to soft cultural values fail to address the concerns that employees have in their everyday work, resulting in lower overall employee culture ratings. Our study highlights the significance of managers’ career preferences in shaping different cultural values and offers implications for firms selecting senior managers.

Keywords: Organization control, Corporate culture, Career preference, Manager-employee misalignment.

JEL Classification: M12, M14

Suggested Citation:

Abernethy, Margaret A. and Hung, Chung-Yu and Jiang, Like, Managers’ career preferences and corporate culture (March 12, 2024). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3741963
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
707
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies