Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
‘Size & Fit’ of Piecemeal Liquidation Processes: Aggravating Circumstances and Side Effects

Open Review of Management, Banking and Finance, Forthcoming

32 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2021

Rosa Cocozza

Federico II University

Rainer Masera

Università degli Studi Guglielmo Marconi

Date Written: October 18, 2020

Abstract

This paper investigates the actual impact of new accounting and regulatory requirements on banks’ provisioning policies and earnings management in the context of the capital adequacy of Euro Area (EA) credit institutions. This paper also examines whether loan-loss provisions signal managements’ expectations concerning future bank profits to investors. Evidence drawn from the 2011-2019 period indicates that earnings management is an important determinant of LLPs for EA intermediaries. During recent years, small bank managers are much more concerned with their credit portfolio quality and do not use LLPs for discretionary purposes apart from income smoothing. The paper gives evidence of a lack of flexibility in the Balance-Sheet of smaller banks and provides some policy refinement to avoid disorderly piecemeal liquidation.

Keywords: Banks, Bank Regulation, Bank Supervision, Capital Management, Income Smoothing, Loan-Loss Provisions, Signaling, Proportionality

JEL Classification: G01, G21, G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cocozza, Rosa and Masera, Rainer, ‘Size & Fit’ of Piecemeal Liquidation Processes: Aggravating Circumstances and Side Effects (October 18, 2020). Open Review of Management, Banking and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3742613 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3742613
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
J Abad , J Suarez
Assessing the cyclical implications of IFRS 9 -a recursive model
ESRB Occasional Paper Series , issue 12 Posted: 2017
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: a reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A Anandarajan , I Hasan , C Mccarthy
Use of loan loss provisions for capital, earnings management and signaling by Australian banks
Accounting and Finance , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 357 - 379 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Barnea , J Ronen , S Sadan
The implementation of accounting objectives: an application to extraordinary items
Accounting Review , volume 50 , p. 58 - 68 Posted: 1975-01
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
713
RANK
798,750
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies