Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Structure and Earnings Management: Empirical Evidence from Listed Pharmaceuticals and Chemical Firms of Bangladesh

Journal of Finance and Banking Review, 5 (2): 58 – 69. https://doi.org/10.35609/jfbr.2020.5.2(3)

31 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2021

Dewan Azmal Hossain

Independent; affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 30, 2020

Abstract

Objective – This study aims to examine the relationship between ownership structure (determined by institutional and foreign ownership) and earnings management in the context of Bangladeshi Pharmaceuticals and Chemical firms.

Methodology/Technique – Out of 32 listed firms, this study examined 29 firms from the pharmaceuticals and chemical industry of Bangladesh from 2014 to 2018. Three firms are omitted as they got listed in 2018 and 2019 respectively. This study uses discretionary working capital accrual to measure earnings management that is the dependent variable. Ordinary least square regression analysis is conducted to assess the result of this study. Institutional and foreign ownership are independent variables. ROA, size, cash flow from operation, and leverage are control variables.

Findings – It is found that institutional ownership is negatively related to earnings management and foreign ownership is positively related to earnings management but none of them are statistically significant indicating institutional and foreign ownership do not help in resolving or reducing the earnings management problems in the context of Bangladeshi pharmaceuticals and chemical firms.

Novelty – Previous studies in Bangladesh deal only with the techniques of earnings management. To my knowledge, it is the first study that tries to assess the relationship of ownership structure defined by institutional and foreign shareholdings with earnings management in the context of Bangladeshi pharmaceuticals and chemical firms. These two ownership patterns are selected because they are supposed to increase the quality of financial information and also because in Bangladesh state and general shareholders are too dispersed to monitor the governance issues. The practical implications of this study is that investors should not consider institutional and foreign ownership percentage as a determining factor of good governance when considering investment decisions rather should look for other firm-specific factors as institutional and foreign shareholders are found to be inactive in increasing the quality of financial information in the context of Bangladesh. Policymakers should identify why institutional and foreign shareholders are not active and should revise the governance mechanisms accordingly.

Type of Paper: Empirical

Keywords: Ownership structure; Institutional Shareholdings; Foreign Shareholdings; Earnings Management; Bangladesh

JEL Classification: G40; G41; G49

Suggested Citation:

Hossain, Dewan Azmal and Hossain, Dewan Azmal, Ownership Structure and Earnings Management: Empirical Evidence from Listed Pharmaceuticals and Chemical Firms of Bangladesh (September 30, 2020). Journal of Finance and Banking Review, 5 (2): 58 – 69. https://doi.org/10.35609/jfbr.2020.5.2(3), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3742211 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3742211
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
N M H Abdullah , Z Ahmad , S Roslan
The influence of ownership structure on the firm's dividend policy based Lintner Model
International Review of Business Research Papers , volume 8 , issue 6 , p. 71 - 88 Posted: 2012
Bhanu Laur
Dividend Policy and the Lintner Model: Why Do Firms Pay Dividends?
Pages: 29 Posted: 19 Feb 2020 Last revised: 29 May 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Abed , B Al-Najjar , C Roberts
Measuring annual report narratives disclosure: empirical evidence from forward-looking information in the UK prior the financial crisis
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 31 , issue 4/5 , p. 338 - 361 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
785
RANK
304,916
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies