Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of CEO Power on Different Measures of Environmental Disclosure: Evidence From U.S. Firms

Wukich, J. J. (2020). The impact of CEO power on different measures of environmental disclosure: Evidence from U.S. firms [Special issue]. Corporate Ownership & Control, 18 (1), 423-437 https://doi.org/10.22495/cocv18i1siart15

15 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2021

Jacqueline Jarosz Wukich

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Accountancy; Cleveland State University - Monte Ahuja College of Business

Date Written: December 3, 2020

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to investigate if the detriment to environmental (E) disclosures as a result of a chief executive officer’s (CEO) power is different for outcome versus intention-oriented disclosure characteristics. This paper creates four measures to capture the diverse nature of E disclosures that vary in the degree of accountability and comparability they provide: a)qualitative, b)quantitative, c)effectiveness, and d)effort. Seemingly unrelated regression is used on a sample of over 2,200 U.S. publicly traded companies. Findings suggest that the relationship between CEO power and E disclosures is not uniform. Powerful CEOs suppression of the most comparable outcome-based environmental disclosures (effectiveness) is greater than the suppression of other environmental disclosures. This is a particularly relevant relationship given shifts in corporate priorities as demonstrated by the proliferation of impact investing, the growth in E reporting, and the CEO’s stated commitment to maximizing stakeholder wealth that was discussed at the August 2019 Business Roundtable.

Keywords: ESG disclosure, Environmental disclosure, CEO power, Accountability, Agency Theory, CSR

JEL Classification: M410, M490

Suggested Citation:

Jarosz Wukich, Jacqueline, The Impact of CEO Power on Different Measures of Environmental Disclosure: Evidence From U.S. Firms (December 3, 2020). Wukich, J. J. (2020). The impact of CEO power on different measures of environmental disclosure: Evidence from U.S. firms [Special issue]. Corporate Ownership & Control, 18 (1), 423-437 https://doi.org/10.22495/cocv18i1siart15 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3742329
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
677
RANK
420,501
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies