Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fresh Evidence on Determinants of Corporate Cash Holdings

e-journal - First Pan IIT International Management Conference – 2018

24 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2020

Prof.C.P. Gupta

Department of Financial Studies, University of Delhi

Prateek Bedi

Department of Financial Studies, University of Delhi

Date Written: December 5, 2020

Abstract

We examine the consolidated impact of firm-level characteristics and macroeconomic factors on corporate cash holdings. Considering a sample of Indian non-financial firms from March 2001 to March 2016, we provide empirical evidence to show that board membership of ‘Finance Head’ and promoter ownership share a significant negative relationship with cash holdings. Results suggest that firms with higher degree of diversification and lower degree of financial distress have relatively lower cash holdings. In order to ascertain the precise impact of interest rates on cash holdings, the study marks a significant shift from the extant literature with regard to measurement of corporate liquidity by excluding short term debt instruments. The findings reveal that corporate cash and bank balance varies inversely with interest rates. Furthermore, we provide evidence for an increase in corporate cash holdings during the global financial crisis of 2008-09.

Keywords: Corporate Cash Holdings, Interest Rate, Fixed-Effects Model,Promoter Ownership, Board Membership, Global Financial Crisis

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Prof. Chander Prakesh and Bedi, Prateek, Fresh Evidence on Determinants of Corporate Cash Holdings (December 5, 2020). e-journal - First Pan IIT International Management Conference – 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3743398 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3743398
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
766
RANK
459,150
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies