Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Virtual Shareholder Meetings

University of Miami Legal Studies Research Paper No. 3743064

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3743064

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 777/2021

Management Science, forthcoming

73 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2021 Last revised: 1 Nov 2023

Francois Brochet

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Roman Chychyla

University of Miami - School of Business Administration

Fabrizio Ferri

University of Miami - Miami Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute

Date Written: June 16, 2023

Abstract

We examine determinants and consequences of ‘virtual’ shareholder meetings (VSM), using a sample of voluntary (pre-Covid) and forced (i.e. due to Covid) VSM adopters. Voluntary adopters are tech firms, and firms traditionally more engaged with shareholders, consistent with the stated objective to increase shareholder participation. In contrast, we do not find that firms choose the virtual format to avoid shareholders’ scrutiny. Textual analysis of transcripts suggests that in VSM business presentations by management are less frequent, shorter and more generic, but only among voluntary adopters, suggesting that these properties reflect a firm’s choice rather than a byproduct of the virtual format per se. VSM are more likely to exhibit no questions during the Q&A, but conditioned upon having one question, they exhibit the same number of questions, and such questions are more negative in tone, inconsistent with managers’ using the virtual format to filter out hostile questions. Finally, there is some evidence of greater abnormal absolute returns around VSM, supporting the notion that greater attendance translates into greater information content. Overall, VSM exhibit less activity on average, consistent with critics’ concerns, but such reduced activity does not appear to cause a loss in information content nor to reflect an attempt to avoid scrutiny.

Keywords: virtual shareholder meetings, annual shareholder meetings, corporate governance, shareholder engagement, investor relations

JEL Classification: G34, G30, M40

Suggested Citation:

Brochet, Francois and Chychyla, Roman and Ferri, Fabrizio, Virtual Shareholder Meetings (June 16, 2023). University of Miami Legal Studies Research Paper No. 3743064, University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3743064, European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 777/2021, Management Science, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3743064 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3743064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
J Banko , M B Frye , W Wang , A M Whyte
Earnings management and annual general meetings: The role of managerial entrenchment
Financial Review , volume 48 , p. 259 - 282 Posted: 2013
A Beyer , D Cohen , T Lys , B Walther
The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
E Blankespoor , B Hendricks , Miller
Perceptions and Price: Evidence from CEO Presentations at IPO Roadshows
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 55 , p. 275 - 327 Posted: 2017
E Blankespoor , B Hendricks , G S Miller
The Pitch: Managers' Disclosure Choice During IPO Roadshows
The Accounting Review Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,045
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,094
RANK
49,287
7 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Miami School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies