Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Transparency and Firm Value: Evidence from Sri Lanka

6th International Conference for Accounting Researchers and Educators 04th December 2020

14 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2021

Niruja Rajakulanajagam

University of Jaffna - Department of Accounting

Balasundaram Nimalathasan

University of Jaffna

Date Written: December 1, 2020

Abstract

The aim of this study is to investigate the impact of corporate transparency and firm value. Although managers are getting allowances to disclosure more, existing literature reveal that the disclosure brings negative effects and additional cost. However, being transparent is better way to boost up investors’ confidence through that firms could enhance their value. To clear out these conflicts current study empirically investigates the problem using three proxies of firm value such as return on equity, modified Tobin’s Q and share price. Corporate transparency were measured based on the adjusted S&P disclosure and transparency items under three aspects namely, financial transparency and information disclosure, board and management structure and processes and ownership structure and investor rights. The study considered all the listed firm in Colombo stock exchange as the population and after the careful elimination, total of 126 Sri Lankan listed companies were selected to the empirical analysis. Hypotheses of the study were tested based on the multiple regression. The result of the study reveal that the corporate transparency positively influence on firms’ value in Sri Lankan setting. This result could be practicable by disclosing more information voluntarily. This study contributes to the existing literature by examining the corporate transparency through modified disclosure index.


Keywords: Colombo Stock Exchange, Corporate Transparency, Modified Tobin’s Q, Share Price

Suggested Citation:

Rajakulanajagam, Niruja and Nimalathasan, Balasundaram, Corporate Transparency and Firm Value: Evidence from Sri Lanka (December 1, 2020). 6th International Conference for Accounting Researchers and Educators 04th December 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3743882 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3743882
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
M Abdullah , Z A Shukor , Z M Mohamed , A Ahmad
Risk management disclosure: A study on the effect of voluntary risk management disclosure toward firm value
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 400 - 432 Posted: 2015
Crossref
F Adjaoud , D Zeghal , S Andaleeb
The effect of board's quality on performance: A study of Canadian firms
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 623 - 635 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Aksu , A Kosedag
Transparency and Disclosure Scores Stock Exchange
Corporate Governance , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 277 - 296 Posted: 2006
M Ammann , D Oesch , M M Schmid
Corporate governance and firm value: International evidence ☆
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 18 , p. 36 - 55 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
323
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,242
RANK
213,801
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies