Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Relevance of Accounting Information and Stock Market Prices - A Study on listed companies on Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) in Sri Lanka.

Elangkumaran,P. & Jenita,J.N (2012) Value Relevance of Accounting Information and Stock Market Prices - A Study on listed companies on Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) in Sri Lanka. Proceedings of the 13th Annual Research Symposium November 22 &23 2012 Faculty of Graduate Studies, University of Kelaniya

Posted: 12 Feb 2021

Periyathamby Elangkumaran

Independent

J. Jenitta

Advanced Technological Institute

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Abstract: In the recent time, the relation between accounting information and stock market value has been an internationally popular subject for research. The important is that value relevance is a measure of investor perception of the reliability of corporate financial accounting information. This study investigates the value relevance of accounting information and stock market prices on listed companies in Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) Sri Lanka. The study was identified 24 Companies listed in the CSE for the period from year 2006/2007 to 2010/2011.The changes in Earning Per Share ( EPS ) and changes in Net Asset Value Per Share ( NAVPS ) are the independent variables and changes in Share Price as dependent variable for this study. The present study used the correlation coefficient and linear regression to measure the value relevance between share prices and two core accounting variables. It is found that only 9.3% of changes in share price can be explained by changes in defined accounting variables On the other hand considering individually there is a negative correlation between share price and NAVPS of the sample company. It is also found that there is 30% relationship between share price and EPS and found that there is a negative relationship between EPS and NAVPS. According to the present study, investors tend to focus on information other than the corporate financial accounting information, such as short term capital gains and tend to be speculative or irrational for unusual events.


Keywords: Earning Per Share, Net Asset Value Per Share, Share Price, CSE

Suggested Citation:

Elangkumaran, Periyathamby and Jenitta, J., Value Relevance of Accounting Information and Stock Market Prices - A Study on listed companies on Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) in Sri Lanka. (2012). Elangkumaran,P. & Jenita,J.N (2012) Value Relevance of Accounting Information and Stock Market Prices - A Study on listed companies on Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) in Sri Lanka. Proceedings of the 13th Annual Research Symposium November 22 &23 2012 Faculty of Graduate Studies, University of Kelaniya, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3743887
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
511
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies