Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Market Impact of the Appointment of Female Directors in Listed Companies in New Zealand

Journal of Administrative and Business Studies, 2018, 4(5): 246-255

10 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2021

David K. Ding

Singapore Management University - Lee Kong Chian School of Business

Echo Su Chen

Massey University - School of Economics and Finance

Date Written: October 10, 2018

Abstract

This study examines investor reaction to the appointment of female directors in New Zealand-listed companies. Using the event study method, we find that female directors tend to be appointed as independent directors rather than in a CEO role. The results reveal that female board appointments are generally negatively associated with stock performance. This study captures both the gender diversity arising in New Zealand companies and the performance of stock price resulting from the reaction of investors to the different positions of female directors. The evidence of a decrease in market performance is shown by the negative cumulative average abnormal returns from the announcements of women appointees to the board.

Suggested Citation:

Ding, David K. and Chen, Echo Su, The Market Impact of the Appointment of Female Directors in Listed Companies in New Zealand (October 10, 2018). Journal of Administrative and Business Studies, 2018, 4(5): 246-255, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3744804
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
F Adebayo , M Bilquis
E-governance and effective bureaucratic practices in Nigeria civil
International Journal of Business and Administrative Studies , volume 4 , issue 3 , p. 105 - 121 Posted: 2018
Crossref
P Altantsetseg , K C Chen , M L Chang
Male and female leaders' entrepreneurial leadership: A comparative study of Mongolia, Taiwan and Thailand on leader-member exchange
Journal of Administrative and Business Studies , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 144 - 152 Posted: 2017
Crossref
G Anggadwita , W Dhewanto
Women's entrepreneurial intentions in Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) in Indonesia: The innluence of environmental factors on perceived behavioral control
Journal of Administrative and Business Studies , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 7 Posted: 2016
Crossref
M Bertrand , A Schoar
Managing with style: The effect of managers on irm policies
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 4 , p. 1169 - 1208 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
793
RANK
605,468
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies