Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Spillover of Shareholder Litigation Risk and Corporate Voluntary Disclosure

51 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2021 Last revised: 24 May 2021

Mengchao Ai

University of Massachusetts Lowell - The Robert J. Manning School of Business

John (Jianqiu) Bai

Northeastern University (USA) - D’Amore-McKim School of Business

Ting Chen

University of Massachusetts Boston - College of Management

Senlin Miao

Central South University - School of Business

Amy X. Sun

University of Houston

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 24, 2021

Abstract

We study how the spillover of peer firms’ litigation risk affects a focal firm’s voluntary disclosure. We find that focal firms facing greater litigation risk spillovers reduce disclosure activities by lowering both the likelihood of issuance and the frequency of management earnings forecasts. We show that the effect is likely causal using a difference-in-differences design where an unanticipated court ruling significantly reduces certain firms’ exposure to peers’ litigation risk spillover. Further analyses suggest that cross-ownership of institutional investors is a potential mechanism through which the diffusion of litigation risk externalities occurs.

Keywords: spillover effect; litigation risk; securities litigation; voluntary disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Ai, Mengchao and Bai, John (Jianqiu) and Chen, Ting and Miao, Senlin and Sun, Amy X., The Spillover of Shareholder Litigation Risk and Corporate Voluntary Disclosure (May 24, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3745937 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3745937
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
323
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,566
RANK
91,652
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies