Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Common Institutional Ownership and Stock Price Crash Risk

51 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2023 Last revised: 26 Dec 2023

Shenglan Chen

Zhejiang University of Technology

Hui Ma

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Hao Zhang

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) - Saunders College of Business

Date Written: October 9, 2023

Abstract

This paper presents new evidence on the economic benefits arising from common institutional ownership. We find a negative and significant effect of common institutional ownership on stock price crash risk. This effect is robust to a battery of robustness checks and is causal according to some identification tests, including difference-in-differences (DiD) analyses on financial institution mergers. We find evidence that the negative effect is attributable to the monitoring role of common institutional owners—a role that is enabled by common owners’ lower information processing cost and greater monitoring incentives owing to governance externalities. We also find that common owners negatively influence crash risk through constraining bad news hoarding and that common owners are more likely to force chief executive officer (CEO) turnover when a firm has higher crash risk. Overall, our results suggest that common institutional shareholders play a unique and effective monitoring role that fends off stock price crashes.

Keywords: Common institutional ownership, Bad news hoarding, Overinvestment, Stock price crash risk, Monitoring, Governance externalities

JEL Classification: G23; G32; M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Shenglan and Ma, Hui and Wu, Qiang and Zhang, Hao, Common Institutional Ownership and Stock Price Crash Risk (October 9, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3746777 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3746777
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
V V Acharya , P Volpin
Corporate governance externalities. Review of Finance , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2010
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Wall Street Walk" and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 7 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
Z An , G Huang , D Li , S Xiao
Foreign institutional ownership, risk-taking, and crash risk around the world Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
621
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,754
RANK
98,680
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies