Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Quantitative Analysis of Distortions in Managerial Forecasts

Bank of Italy Temi di Discussione (Working Paper) No. 1305

68 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2020

Tiziano Ropele

Bank of Italy

Yueran Ma

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

David Alexandre Sraer

University of California, Berkeley; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

David Thesmar

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 17, 2020

Abstract

This paper quantifies the economic costs of distortions in managerial forecasts. We match a business survey run by the Bank of Italy with administrative data on firms’ balance sheets and income statements. The resulting dataset allows us to observe a long panel of managerial forecast errors for a representative sample of Italian firms with at least 20 employees. We show that managerial forecast errors are positively and significantly autocorrelated. This persistence of forecast errors is consistent with managerial underreaction to new information. To quantify the economic significance of this forecasting bias, we estimate a dynamic equilibrium model with heterogeneous firms and distorted expectations. The estimated model matches not only the persistence of forecast errors, but also the empirical link between investment and managerial forecasts. Compared with a counterfactual with rational expectations, we find that managers exhibit large forecasting biases, which lead to significant distortions in firm-level investment. These distortions, however, imply limited loss in firm value. In general equilibrium, the estimated model leads to negligible aggregate efficiency losses from distorted forecasts.

Keywords: expectation formation, misallocation, corporate investment

JEL Classification: D61, D84

Suggested Citation:

Ropele, Tiziano and Ma, Yueran and Sraer, David Alexandre and Thesmar, David, A Quantitative Analysis of Distortions in Managerial Forecasts (November 17, 2020). Bank of Italy Temi di Discussione (Working Paper) No. 1305, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3746166 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3746166
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
111 References
Requests for copies should be sent to: Banca d'Italia -Servizio Studi di struttura economica e finanziaria -Divisione Biblioteca e Archivio storico -Via Nazionale
They are available on the Internet www.bancaditalia.it. RECENTLY PUBLISHED "TEMI
Alessio Anzuini
The Non-linear Effects of the Fed's Asset Purchases
Bank of Italy Temi di Discussione (Working Paper) No. 1280 Pages: 29 Posted: 24 Jul 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lucia Rizzica , Giacomo Roma , Gabriele Rovigatti
The Effects of Shop Opening Hours Deregulation: Evidence from Italy
Bank of Italy Temi di Discussione (Working Paper) No. 1281 Pages: 63 Posted: 24 Jul 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Guglielmo Barone , Francesco David , Guido de Blasio , Sauro Mocetti
How do House Prices Respond to Mortgage Supply?
Bank of Italy Temi di Discussione (Working Paper) No. 1282 Pages: 30 Posted: 24 Jul 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,059
RANK
39,662
1 Citations
111 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bank of Italy Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies