Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Downside Risks in Mergers and Acquisitions: Evidence from Acquirers’ Mandatory Risk Factor Disclosure

79 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2021 Last revised: 19 Apr 2025

Feng Guo

Iowa State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Tingting Liu

University of Tennessee, Knoxville; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Tao Shu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Xinyan Yan

University of South Florida - Department of Finance

Date Written: November 19, 2024

Abstract

We use the acquirer’s mandatory risk factor disclosure in merger filings to study the composition of downside risks in mergers and acquisitions from acquirers’ perspective and the effects of major risk factors on post-merger outcomes. An unsupervised topic modeling approach identifies four major risk factors: product risk, valuation risk, accounting risk, and dilution risk, which together account for nearly half of the acquirer’s risk disclosure. We find evidence that, while major risk factors generally have negative impacts on the acquirer’s post-merger outcomes - such as integration, performance volatility, and performance level - dilution risk has a positive impact on the acquirer’s post-merger outcomes. Additionally, the risk factors have varying associations with the specific post-merger integration issues identified by ChatGPT.

Keywords: risks in M&A, S-4 risk factor disclosure, product risk, valuation risk, accounting risk, dilution risk, post-merger outcomes, ChatGPT JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Feng and Liu, Tingting and Shu, Tao and Yan, Xinyan, Downside Risks in Mergers and Acquisitions: Evidence from Acquirers’ Mandatory Risk Factor Disclosure (November 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3746734 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3746734
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
I Abramova , J E Core , A Sutherland
Institutional investor attention and firm disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2020
K R Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
G Andrade , M Mitchell , E Stafford
New evidence and perspectives on mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,327
RANK
38,450
1 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies