Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrated Thinking and Sustainability Reporting Assurance: International Evidence

Business Strategy and the Environment, Forthcoming

Posted: 1 Feb 2021 Last revised: 20 Apr 2021

Diogenis Baboukardos

Audencia Business School

Musa Mangena

University of Nottingham Business School

Abdullahi Ishola

University of Essex - Essex Business School

Date Written: November 3, 2020

Abstract

Recently, there has been increasing demand by stakeholders for firms to demonstrate how they create value within the context of their operating environment. Consequently, a new reporting approach, Integrated Reporting (IR), was conceptualised with its development linked to the firm’s Integrated Thinking (IT). Yet very little is known about the effects of IT on firms’ reporting decisions. Hence, we investigate whether IT influences firms’ decision to publish an assured sustainability report. Using an international dataset, we find that IT is positively associated with sustainability reporting assurance. We also find that this association is moderated by the type of legal system such that for firms in code law countries, the IT effects are reduced. Nevertheless, the effects of IT remain strong indicating that IT is important for reporting decisions regardless of the firm’s contextual setting. These findings have implications for policy makers and organisations interested in promoting high quality sustainability reporting.

Keywords: Integrated thinking; Sustainability reporting assurance, Integrated reporting, Legal systems, Stakeholder engagement

JEL Classification: M4, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Baboukardos, Diogenis and Mangena, Musa and Ishola, Abdullahi, Integrated Thinking and Sustainability Reporting Assurance: International Evidence (November 3, 2020). Business Strategy and the Environment, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3747913
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
421
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies