Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Earnings Management and Managerial Ability on Management Compensation

65 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2021

Malek El Diri

University of York; University of Leeds

Mohammad Alhadab

Al al-Bayt University

Date Written: March 11, 2020

Abstract

We contribute to the extensive literature on earnings management by examining the impact of earnings management behaviour on executive compensation conditioned on managerial ability. We find that managers with better abilities are associated with more accrual earnings management, less real earnings management, and better mapping of accruals into cash flows. Boards of directors reward this behaviour with better compensation under the perception that accrual earnings management is part of superior managers’ skills and should be incorporated in their reward contracts. The results show that managerial ability is a crucial input for assessing the costs and benefits of executives’ behaviour in their contracts with firms.

Keywords: Accrual earnings management; Real earnings management; Earnings quality; Management compensation; Managerial ability

JEL Classification: E24, M12, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

El Diri, Malek and Alhadab, Mohammad, The Impact of Earnings Management and Managerial Ability on Management Compensation (March 11, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3748750 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3748750
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
122 References
D Adut , A D Holder , A Robin
Predictive Versus Opportunistic Earnings Management, Executive Compensation, and Firm Performance
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 126 - 146 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Executive Compensation, Strategic Competition, and Relative Performance Evaluation: Theory and Evidence
Journal of Finance , volume 54 , issue 6 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J L Abernathy , T R Kubick , A Masli
Evidence on the relation between managerial ability and financial reporting timeliness
International Journal of Auditing , volume 22 , p. 185 - 196 Posted: 2018
Crossref
M Alhadab , I Clacher , K Keasey
Real and Accrual Earnings Management and IPO Failure Risk
Accounting and Business Research , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 55 - 92 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,027
RANK
334,632
122 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies