Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management, Managerial Ability, and the Role of Competition

56 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2021

Malek El Diri

University of York; University of Leeds

Date Written: February 20, 2019

Abstract

I contribute to the extensive earnings management literature by examining the effect of market competition on the relationship between managerial ability and earnings management. The results show that in the face of increased competition, high quality managers manipulate earnings via accruals rather than more costly real earnings management. As a result, competition amplifies accrual earnings management by superior managers, but does not result in greater amounts of real earnings management. This reaction to the pressure of competition reflects the optimal contracting between firms and more able managers that creates mutual benefits to both parties. The results emphasize the importance of understanding how industry level factors influence managerial decisions at the firm level.

Keywords: Accrual earnings management, Real earnings management, Managerial ability, Competition, Earnings management consequences

JEL Classification: D4, E24, L11, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

El Diri, Malek, Earnings Management, Managerial Ability, and the Role of Competition (February 20, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3748724 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3748724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
D Adut , A D Holder , Robin , A
Predictive versus opportunistic earnings management, executive compensation, and firm performance
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 32 , p. 126 - 146 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Executive Compensation, Strategic Competition, and Relative Performance Evaluation: Theory and Evidence
Journal of Finance , volume 54 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
Crossref
G Allayannis , J P Weston
Earnings volatility, cash flow volatility, and firm value Posted: 2007
C Alonsi-Borrego , M Arellano
Symmetrically normalised instrumental-variable estimation using panel data
Journal of Business & Economic Statistics , volume 17 , p. 36 - 49 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,079
RANK
257,340
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies