Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Earnings Management in Concentrated Markets

Journal of Business Research, Vol. 108, No. January, 2020

Posted: 21 Jan 2021

Malek El Diri

University of York; University of Leeds

Date Written: January 1, 2020

Abstract

This study examines the difference between high and low concentrated markets in using accrual and real earnings management and the role of corporate governance in mitigating such activities across the two types of markets. We find that firms operating in concentrated markets use more accrual and real earnings management compared to those in non-concentrated markets. Furthermore, we find evidence that corporate governance, in the form of quality board characteristics, is more effective in mitigating earnings management in non-concentrated markets. In contrast, corporate governance in concentrated markets drives managers to substitute accrual with real earnings management as the latter is less easily detectable and its long-term negative consequences on firm value are likely to be mitigated by the higher competitive power of firms in concentrated markets. The findings of this study are potentially useful to regulators in enhancing the legitimacy of corporate governance in concentrated markets.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Board of directors, Accrual earnings management, Real earnings management, Market concentration

Suggested Citation:

El Diri, Malek, Corporate Governance and Earnings Management in Concentrated Markets (January 1, 2020). Journal of Business Research, Vol. 108, No. January, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3748757
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
445
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies