Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Retaliation Costs on Employee Whistleblowing

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2021

Jonas Heese

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Gerardo Perez Cavazos

University of California, San Diego (UCSD)

Date Written: December 15, 2020

Abstract

We use large increases in unemployment insurance (UI) benefits to study the effects of expected retaliation costs on employee whistleblowing. Increases in UI benefits reduce the costs that arise from a job loss, one of the costliest forms of retaliation. We find that increases in UI benefits increase the number of facility-level employee workplace safety complaints filed with the regulator. Furthermore, UI benefit increases also result in more violations and more penalties. The effects are concentrated in firms where retaliation is more likely as measured by weaker employee relations, internal controls, and monitoring. Our findings show the importance of reducing retaliation costs to tap into employees’ knowledge of misconduct.

Keywords: Employee Whistleblowing, Retaliation Costs, Labor Unemployment Insurance, Workplace Safety Inspections

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Heese, Jonas and Perez Cavazos, Gerardo, The Effect of Retaliation Costs on Employee Whistleblowing (December 15, 2020). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3749629
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Y Dou , M Khan , Y Zou
Labor unemployment insurance and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 61 , issue 1 , p. 166 - 184 Posted: 2016
Crossref
A Dyck , A Morse , L Zingales
Who blows the whistle on corporate fraud
Journal of Finance , volume 65 , p. 2213 - 2253 Posted: 2010
Crossref
B H Earle , G A Madek
The mirage of whistleblower protection under SarbanesOxley: A proposal for change
American Business Law Journal , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 54 Posted: 2007
Crossref
S Glaeser , W R Guay , Liu Floyd , Maffett
Identification and generalizability in accounting research: A discussion of Christensen
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 64 , issue 2-3 , p. 305 - 312 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
741
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,974
RANK
78,677
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies