Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Have European banks maintained their payout policy during the crisis? The role of scrip dividends

Blanco-Alcántara, D, Gallud-Cano, J, López-Iturriaga, FJ, López-de-Foronda, Ó. Have European banks maintained their payout policy during the crisis? The role of scrip dividends. Int J Fin Econ. 2020; 1– 14. https://doi.org/10.1002/ijfe.2391

25 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2021

Jorge Gallud Cano

University of Valladolid - Department of Finance and Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 14, 2020

Abstract

We analyse the trend among 79 banks from 20 European countries towards scrip dividends. Whereas banks do not seem to smooth cash dividends, they do smooth total dividends, which include both cash and scrip dividends. We also find that the new legal requirements (resulting from the Basel III Accord and other country‐level laws) have different implications on cash and scrip dividends. Whereas the need for better and more capital imposed by these rules has led banks to cut cash dividends, there is a positive relationship between the legal requirements on capital adequacy and scrip dividends.

Keywords: Capital stringency, dividends, European banks, Basel accords, payout, scrip dividends, shareholder protection

Suggested Citation:

Gallud Cano, Jorge, Have European banks maintained their payout policy during the crisis? The role of scrip dividends (December 14, 2020). Blanco-Alcántara, D, Gallud-Cano, J, López-Iturriaga, FJ, López-de-Foronda, Ó. Have European banks maintained their payout policy during the crisis? The role of scrip dividends. Int J Fin Econ. 2020; 1– 14. https://doi.org/10.1002/ijfe.2391, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3749142
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
V V Acharya , I Gujral , N Kulkarni , H S Shin
Dividends and bank capital in the financial crisis of Posted: 2007
V Aivazian , L Booth , S Cleary
Do emerging market firms follow different dividend policies from US firms
Journal of Financial Research , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 371 - 387 Posted: 2003
B Al-Najjar , E Kilincarslan
Corporate dividend decisions and dividend smoothing
International Journal of Managerial Finance , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 304 - 331 Posted: 2017
Y Amihud , K Li
The declining information content of dividend announcements and the effects of institutional holdings
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 637 - 660 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
359
RANK
618,599
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies