Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Ownership Structure and Firm Risk: Empirical Evidence from Listed Companies in Sri Lanka

Farwis, M., & Azeez, A. A. (2019). Corporate Ownership Structure and Firm Risk: Empirical Evidence from Listed Companies in Sri Lanka. Journal of Finance and Bank Management, 7(2), 72–81. https://doi.org/10.15640/jfbm.v7n2a5

10 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2021

Farwis Mahrool

ATI Sammanthurai

Abdul Azeez Athambawa

University of Colombo - Faculty of Management and Finance

Date Written: April 15, 2019

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between ownership structure and firm risk of 69 public listed companies in Sri Lanka over the period of 2010 to 2017.This study consists Management Ownership (MO), Institutional Ownership (IO) and Concentrated Ownership (CO) as ownership variables and total risk, asset return risk and financial risk as the measure of firm risk. The study was conducted as a quantitative study based on secondary data collected from annual reports. Regression model was used to examine the relationship between ownership structure and firm risk. Result depicts that the management ownership shows negative and significant relation on firm risk. On the other hand, institutional and concentrated ownership structure shows positive relation with firm risk. The finding highlights that management owners prefer not to bear high risk due to uncertainty of the business. Meantime, institutional owners and concentrated owners are steering to mitigate high risk in order to gear up the wealth maximization.

Keywords: ownership structure, management ownership, institutional ownership, concentrated ownership, firm risk

Suggested Citation:

Mahrool, Farwis and Athambawa, Abdul Azeez, Corporate Ownership Structure and Firm Risk: Empirical Evidence from Listed Companies in Sri Lanka (April 15, 2019). Farwis, M., & Azeez, A. A. (2019). Corporate Ownership Structure and Firm Risk: Empirical Evidence from Listed Companies in Sri Lanka. Journal of Finance and Bank Management, 7(2), 72–81. https://doi.org/10.15640/jfbm.v7n2a5, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3750246
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
V V Acharya , Y Amihud , L Litov
Creditor rights and corporate risk-taking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 150 - 166 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Y Amihud , B Lev
Risk reduction as a managerial motive for conglomerates mergers
Bell Journal of Economics , volume 12 , p. 605 - 617 Posted: 1981
Crossref
A A Berle , G G Means
The Modern Corporation and Private Property Posted: 1932
N Boubakri , J C Cosset , W &amp;saffar
The role of state and foreign owners in corporate risk-taking: Evidence from privatization
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 3 , p. 641 - 658 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
685
RANK
413,842
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies