Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Board and Firm Risk: An Emerging Market Perspective

Farwis, M., Nazar, M. C. A., & Azeez, A. A. (2020). Corporate Board and Firm Risk : An Emerging Market Perspective. International Journal of Financial Research, 11(6), 301–317. https://doi.org/10.5430/ijfr.v11n6p301

17 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2021

Farwis Mahrool

ATI Sammanthurai

Mohamed Casim Abdul Nazar

South Eastern University of Sri Lanka - Department of Accountancy and Finance

A. A. Azee

University of Colombo - Faculty of Management and Finance

Date Written: December 15, 2020

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between board features and firm risk of listed companies in Colombo Stock Exchange for the period of 2010 to 2017. This research was carried out based on positivistic paradigm with the quantitative methodology. Secondary data were collected and analyzed using panel data analyze techniques to obtain quantitative measures of descriptive statistics, correlations, and regression analyses. The results show that the board features variables such as Board size, Women on board, Non-executive director, CEO Duality and Director Interlock have significant impact on firm risk. The results are consistent with agency theory perspective. On the other hand, Audit committee does not show any impact on firm risk in Sri Lankan companies. Our findings reveal that consistence is with theoretical expectation and code best practices. Further, it suggests that as far as the risk is concerned the existing corporate governance practices and code of best practices are effective in Sri Lankan context.

Keywords: corporate governance, board features, firm risk, emerging market

Suggested Citation:

Mahrool, Farwis and Nazar, Mohamed Casim Abdul and Azee, A. A., Corporate Board and Firm Risk: An Emerging Market Perspective (December 15, 2020). Farwis, M., Nazar, M. C. A., & Azeez, A. A. (2020). Corporate Board and Firm Risk : An Emerging Market Perspective. International Journal of Financial Research, 11(6), 301–317. https://doi.org/10.5430/ijfr.v11n6p301, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3750266
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
Moderation in groups: Evidence from betting on ice break-ups in Alaska
Review of Economic Studies , volume 77 , p. 882 - 913 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEO's and their impact on corporate performance
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , issue 4 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Aggarwal , I Erel , R Stulz , R Williamson
Differences in governance practices between US and foreign firms: measurement, causes, and consequences. The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 3131 - 3169 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
526
RANK
672,649
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies