Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants, Mechanisms and Consequences of Corporate Governance Reporting: A Research Framework

Journal of Management and Governance, Forthcoming

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper

32 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2020

Charl de Villiers

University of Auckland Business School

Ruth Dimes

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

Corporate governance disclosures form a key part of a company’s non-financial reporting. Several studies consider the determinants of corporate governance reporting, including external factors such as country-specific legislation and scandals, and internal factors such as financial performance, size and culture. Others consider the consequences of corporate governance reporting, using simple proxies for corporate governance mechanisms such as board composition characteristics to analyse the impact on financial reporting quality and company valuation. Yet the determinants and consequences of corporate governance reporting may be interlinked, and many quantitative studies fail to consider these links and their multiple effects adequately. Poor financial performance, for example, can be both a determinant and a consequence of the underlying governance mechanisms that corporate governance reporting aims to capture. The framework provided in this paper considers both the determinants and consequences of corporate governance and likely links between them, and also considers internal corporate governance mechanisms and the measures that are used as their proxies. In combining these three aspects of corporate governance and showing potential links, the framework offers insights into future research opportunities. The framework can be adapted to any country or organisational setting and also offers the opportunity to consider theories other than agency theory when studying corporate governance disclosures.

Suggested Citation:

de Villiers, Charl and Dimes, Ruth, Determinants, Mechanisms and Consequences of Corporate Governance Reporting: A Research Framework (2020). Journal of Management and Governance, Forthcoming, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3750447
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
B Alrazi , C De Villiers , C J Van Staden
A comprehensive literature review on, and the construction of a framework for, environmental legitimacy, accountability and proactivity
Journal of Cleaner Production , volume 102 , p. 44 - 57 Posted: 2015
C Armstrong , C Ittner , D Larcker
Corporate governance, compensation consultants, and CEO pay levels
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 322 - 351 Posted: 2012
K Bae , J Baek , J Kang , W Liu
Do controlling shareholders' expropriation incentives imply a link between corporate governance and firm value? Theory and evidence
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 105 , issue 2 , p. 412 - 435 Posted: 2012
S Bear , N Rahman , C Post
The impact of board diversity and gender composition on corporate social responsibility and firm reputation
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 97 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 221 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
804
RANK
511,510
3 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies