Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Opening the Saudi Arabian Stock Market: Its Impact on Information Disclosure

Corporate Governance and Sustainability Review, 4(2), 102-126 (2020).

25 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Ali Alajmi

Taibah University

Date Written: June 13, 2020

Abstract

Opening the stock market has several impacts on companies and the economic status of a country (Ilhan, 2019). The Saudi market is considered as a big opportunity for foreign investors, as it is among the largest economies in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) regions (Elimam, 2017). This study aims to investigate the effect of the liberalization of the stock market in Saudi Arabia on the disclosure of information. To do this, information was gathered through secondary data collection. Empirical studies and existing data collected by other parties were critically analysed to fulfill the research objectives and come up with conclusions. In particular, they were examined through content analysis. Liberalizing the Saudi stock market seemed to improve the disclosure of information. However, it has been found that there are several variations in disclosure of information levels between companies based on the Saudi Arabian Capital Market Authority (CMA) codes. These variations mainly depend on company type, code, and ownership.

Keywords: Stock Market Liberalization, Information Disclosure, Liberalization Effect, Disclosure Effect

JEL Classification: M48, G14, G32

Suggested Citation:

Alajmi, Ali, Opening the Saudi Arabian Stock Market: Its Impact on Information Disclosure (June 13, 2020). Corporate Governance and Sustainability Review, 4(2), 102-126 (2020)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3751216
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
R V Aguilera , K Desender , M K Bednar , J H Lee
Connecting the dots: Bringing external corporate governance into the corporate governance puzzle
The Academy of Management Annals , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 483 - 573 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Al Rajhi Bank
Annual report Posted: 2009
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31
together with auditors' report Posted: 2007
S A S Al-Bogami
An examination of the usefulness of interim financial statements to investors in the Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
521
RANK
906,046
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies