Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compound Financial Instruments and Earnings Management: A Pecking Order Theory Perspective

37 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Jeongmin Yu

Dongguk University - Dongguk Business School

Dong-Hoon Yang

Dongguk University

Date Written: December 22, 2020

Abstract

Unlike other financial instruments, firms issuing compound financial instruments may still have an incentive to manage earnings after the instrument’s issuance. Until the instrument’s maturity, investors retain the ability to convert debt into equity, and this choice can affect both firm and shareholders value. This study uses pecking order theory to examine the earnings management practises of firms that issue compound financial instruments. Using a sample of 3941 firm-years listed on the Korean securities market (the KOSPI Market) from 2012–2019, we find that firms that prefer debt over equity engage in negative earnings management after issuing a compound financial instrument, reducing the likelihood of investors exercising conversion options; the opposite is true when a firm prefers equity over debt. The pre-issuance earnings management test shows that a firm engages in positive earnings management before issuing a compound financial instrument. However, we also find that firms engage in negative earnings management pre-issuance when major shareholders plan to acquire the call options sold separately from the compound financial instrument.

Keywords: earnings management; compound financial instruments; convertible bonds; bonds with warrants; pecking order theory

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Yu, Jeongmin and Yang, Dong-Hoon, Compound Financial Instruments and Earnings Management: A Pecking Order Theory Perspective (December 22, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3753254 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3753254
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
S H Ahn , M H Hwang , M C Kim
Earnings management and the type of seasoned equity offerings
Korean Accounting Review , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 251 - 287 Posted: 2015
C L Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
D Burgstalhler , I Dichev
Earnings management to avoid earnings decreases and losses
Journal of Accounting Economics , volume 24 , p. 99 - 126 Posted: 1997
Crossref
S Cahan
The effect of antitrust investigation on discretionary accruals: a refined test of political-cost hypothesis
The Accounting Review , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 77 - 95 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
667
RANK
490,025
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies