Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sharing the Wealth: The Effects of TCJA Bonuses on Employee Pay Sentiment

50 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2021 Last revised: 24 Jun 2022

Michelle Hutchens

University of Illinois

Dan Lynch

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Bridget Stomberg

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: June 24, 2022

Abstract

Many corporations publicly announced their plans to share tax windfalls from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) with rank-and-file employees through some form of enhanced compensation or benefits. This study examines the association between the public announcement of these bonuses and workers’ pay satisfaction. Although employees are economically better off upon receiving this additional compensation, prior literature suggests employees can be dissatisfied with awards that they perceive as small or inequitable. By linking the bonuses to a corporate tax windfall, firms provided a reference point for employees to use when evaluating the relative fairness of their share. Using a difference-in-differences design, we find a greater decline in pay satisfaction among employees at firms announcing a TCJA bonus relative to firms that do not. Consistent with dissatisfaction being driven by employees’ perceiving their share of the company’s tax windfall as unfairly small, we document a larger decline in pay satisfaction at announcing firms with larger increases in CEO bonuses, larger share repurchases, and greater decreases in corporate taxes around the TCJA. Considering increasing income disparity in the U.S. and a heightened focus on corporate tax burdens, we provide new and timely insights into how workers respond to changes in compensation stemming from corporate tax savings.

Keywords: Tax Savings, TCJA, Employee, Pay Satisfaction, Compensation

JEL Classification: H25, M52

Suggested Citation:

Hutchens, Michelle and Lynch, Dan and Stomberg, Bridget, Sharing the Wealth: The Effects of TCJA Bonuses on Employee Pay Sentiment (June 24, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3753701 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3753701
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
A Abadie
Using Synthetic Controls: Feasibility, Data Requirements, and Methodological Aspects
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 391 - 425 Posted: 2021
A Abadie , A Diamond , J Hainmueller
Synthetic control methods for comparative case studies: Estimating the effect of California's tobacco control program
Journal of the American statistical Association , volume 105 , issue 490 , p. 493 - 505 Posted: 2010
J Adams
Inequity in social exchange , p. 267 - 299 Posted: 1965
D Baker
Corporations are Trying to Sell the GOP's Narrative on Tax Cuts Posted: 2017-10-07
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
397
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,995
RANK
170,079
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies