Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Horizontal Mergers between Public and Private Firms in Vertically-Diﬀerentiated Markets

HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2020-017

Posted: 21 Feb 2021 Last revised: 11 Jun 2021

Xiaogang Lin

School of Management, Guangdong University of Technology

Ying-Ju Chen

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Information Systems, Business Statistics and Operations Management

Yong-Wu Zhou

South China University of Technology

Qiang Lin

School of Management, Guangdong University of Technology

Date Written: December 1, 2019

Abstract

This paper studies the impact of mergers between public and private ﬁrms in vertically-diﬀerentiated markets on product repositioning, proﬁts, consumer surplus, and social welfare. We analyze a game-theoretical model with a public ﬁrm and two private ﬁrms in which the public ﬁrm’s objective is to maximize social welfare while both the private ﬁrms’ objectives are to maximize proﬁts. Before the merger, we show that the public ﬁrm should produce the highest-quality product among three ﬁrms to achieve the largest social welfare and consumer surplus. However, (i) when both private ﬁrms merge into a new private ﬁrm to compete with the public ﬁrm, if the new private ﬁrm’s cost reduction of producing one product is salient, the public ﬁrm should produce a lower-quality product than the new private ﬁrm who should produce a single product; If the cost reduction is low, the public ﬁrm should produce a middle-quality product and the new private ﬁrm should produce two products. This merger can beneﬁt the new private ﬁrm, and the beneﬁt always destroys consumer surplus but might extend to the public ﬁrm and improve social welfare; (ii) when the public ﬁrm and one private ﬁrm merge into a new public ﬁrm to compete with the other private ﬁrm, if the new public ﬁrm’s cost reduction of producing one product is salient, the new public ﬁrm should produce a higher-quality product than the other private ﬁrm; If the cost reduction is low, the public ﬁrm should produce two products with the highest-quality and lowest-quality levels. Unlike the merger between both private ﬁrms, this merger between the public ﬁrm and one private ﬁrm can induce a win-win-win outcome, in which the private ﬁrm without being merged, customers, and social welfare are all better oﬀ if the cost reduction is salient.

Keywords: Horizontal mergers, quality-price competition, public ﬁrms, private ﬁrms, consumer surplus

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Xiaogang and Chen, Ying-Ju and Zhou, Yong-Wu and Lin, Qiang, Horizontal Mergers between Public and Private Firms in Vertically-Diﬀerentiated Markets (December 1, 2019). HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2020-017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3754039
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
470
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies