Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Auditor Rotation, Audit Firm Rotation and Non Audit Services on Earnings Quality, Audit Quality and Investor Perceptions: A Literature Review

Posted: 27 Feb 2021

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Thomas R. Loy

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Universität der Bundeswehr München

Date Written: December 26, 2020

Abstract

This literature review evaluates 103 empirical research studies on the link between rotation and non audit services on the one hand and their influence on earnings quality, audit quality and investor perceptions on the other hand. After the financial crisis 2007/09, regulators all over the world are aware of decreased stakeholder trust in earnings and audit quality. As a reaction, stricter rules on rotation and non audit services by public interest entities (PIEs) have been implemented (e.g. in the European Union). But the impact of these regulations on earnings and audit quality is still controversial. We briefly introduce the theoretical, normative and empirical audit framework that comprises an adequate structure of the state-of-the-art of empirical research in this field. We summarize the findings in each research area, while we split our rotation analysis in audit firm and audit partner rotation and tenure and our dependent variables in earnings quality, audit quality and investor perception measures. Most of the cited studies are linked to earnings-related measures, especially abnormal accruals models. The mixed results can be explained by the different theoretical impacts of agency- and resource based view. Finally, we will discuss the current limitations of the studies and give useful recommendations for future empirical research activities in this topic.

Suggested Citation:

Velte, Patrick and Loy, Thomas R., The Impact of Auditor Rotation, Audit Firm Rotation and Non Audit Services on Earnings Quality, Audit Quality and Investor Perceptions: A Literature Review (December 26, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3755465
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
606
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies