Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do CEO Incentives and Characteristics Influence Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Vice Versa? A Literature Review

Posted: 27 Feb 2021

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Date Written: December 26, 2020

Abstract

Purpose – This paper analyses whether Chief Executive Officer (CEO) incentives and characteristics (e.g. CEO power, CEO tenure) are linked with Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and vice versa.

Design/methodology/approach – Based on upper echelons theory the authors conduct a structured literature review and evaluate 84 empirical-quantitative studies on CEO and CSR variables.

Findings – While the majority of the included studies analysed the CEO-CSR link, there are indicators for a bidirectional relationship. Moreover, prior research has focussed on CEO incentives, especially compensation contracts, and on the US capital market. A major research gap relates to CEO characteristics, e.g. CEO values, education and experience.

Research limitations/applications –Heterogeneous CEO and CSR variables and endogeneity concerns lower the validity of recent studies. Future research is encouraged to implement dynamic regression models, increase CSR and CEO proxies and focus on international samples with country-specific effects.

Practical implications – As CEO activities can have a major impact on CSR activities, the authors recommend firms to search for opportunities to make their CSR strategy more comprehensive by their stakeholder communication and thus providing deeper insights on their CSR performance in line with stakeholders’ interests.

Originality/value – The paper is the first literature review on the interaction between CEO and CSR so far. The authors explain the main CEO and CSR variables, that have been included in research, stress the limitations of the studies and give useful recommendations for future research, practice and regulators.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, chief executive officer (CEO), CSR performance, CSR disclosure, CEO incentives, upper echelons theory

Suggested Citation:

Velte, Patrick, Do CEO Incentives and Characteristics Influence Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Vice Versa? A Literature Review (December 26, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3755453
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
592
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies