Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Governance on Integrated Reporting – A Literature Review

Posted: 27 Feb 2021

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Jannik Gerwanski

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Date Written: December 26, 2020

Abstract

In line with the increasing relevance of integrated reporting (IR) in recent years, a growing body of research has emerged that investigated various determinants of IR implementation and quality. Corporate governance potentially affects IR practices as prior studies have documented their influence on sustainability reporting and other forms of voluntary disclosure. This chapter provides a systematic literature review of empirical quantitative studies that analyze the relationship between specific governance factors and IR. Building on stakeholder-agency theory, our literature review structures the effect of both firm-specific and country-specific governance factors on IR. The subsequent discussion of key implications and recommendations for further research offers valuable insights for academia, practice and regulators.

Suggested Citation:

Velte, Patrick and Gerwanski, Jannik, The Impact of Governance on Integrated Reporting – A Literature Review (December 26, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3755456
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
458
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies