Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Complementarities and the Dynamics of Transparency Shock Spillovers

60 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2021 Last revised: 2 Sep 2021

Shantanu Banerjee

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance; Lancaster University - Management School

Sudipto Dasgupta

Chinese University of Hong Kong, ABFER, CEPR, and ECGI

Rui Shi

University of Liverpool Management School

Jiali Yan

University of Exeter Business School

Date Written: December 26, 2020

Abstract

We show that information complementarities play an important role in the spillover of transparency shocks. We exploit staggered revelation of financial misconduct by S&P500 firms and find that the implied cost of capital increases for “close” industry peers relative to “distant” peers. Disclosure also increases. The effects are particularly strong when the close peers share common analysts and institutional ownership with the fraudulent firm. While disclosure remains high for the next four years, with sustained disclosure, the cost of equity starts to decrease. Firms’ financing patterns tilt more towards debt financing initially at the expense of equity, but eventually revert.

Keywords: Cost of equity, Disclosure, Transparency, Information Environment, Information Complementarity

JEL Classification: G14, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Banerjee, Shantanu and Banerjee, Shantanu and Dasgupta, Sudipto and SHI, RUI and Yan, Jiali, Information Complementarities and the Dynamics of Transparency Shock Spillovers (December 26, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3755473 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3755473
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
348
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,940
RANK
196,969
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies