Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carbon Disclosure and the Cost of Capital

51 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2021 Last revised: 15 Nov 2021

Patrick Bolton

Imperial College London; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Marcin T. Kacperczyk

Imperial College London - Accounting, Finance, and Macroeconomics; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: November 13, 2021

Abstract

We estimate effects of voluntary and mandatory disclosure of carbon emissions on stock returns and volatility using a large global sample of publicly listed firms. We find that voluntary disclosure of scope 1 emissions results in lower stock returns relative to non-disclosing companies. However, one cost of disclosing emissions is increased divestment by institutional investors. We also find that U.K. mandatory carbon disclosure rules for publicly traded companies resulted in lower stock-level uncertainty. The effect of these mandatory disclosure rules also spilled over into other markets, especially those with close geographic and economic proximity, and companies in the same industry.

Keywords: Carbon Emissions, Voluntary and Mandatory Disclosure, Stock Returns

JEL Classification: G12, G23, G30, D62, D83

Suggested Citation:

Bolton, Patrick and Kacperczyk, Marcin T., Carbon Disclosure and the Cost of Capital (November 13, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3755613 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3755613
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Anat Admati , Paul Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Patrick Bolton , Marcin Kacperczyk
Do investors care about carbon risk?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 142 , issue 2 , p. 517 - 549 Posted: 2021
Patrick Bolton , Marcin Kacperczyk
Global pricing of carbon-transition risk
Journal of Finance , volume 76 , issue 6 , p. 3677 - 3754 Posted: 2023
Patrick Bolton , Marcin Kacperczyk
Firm commitments Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,969
ABSTRACT VIEWS
14,065
RANK
4,284
2 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies