Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Materiality Disclosure Quality in Integrated Reporting: Empirical Evidence from an International Setting

Posted: 27 Feb 2021

Jannik Gerwanski

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Othar Kordsachia

University of Liechtenstein

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Date Written: December 26, 2020

Abstract

This study examines determinants of materiality disclosure quality (MDQ) in integrated reporting (IR) in an international setting. To this purpose, we constructed a novel, hand-collected MDQ score in line with the IR guiding principles introduced by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). Based on a cross-national sample consisting of 359 firm-year observations between 2013 and 2016, we find that MDQ is positively associated with learning effects, gender diversity and the assurance of non-financial information in the integrated report. On the other hand, we find that IR readability, listing in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and earnings management do not affect MDQ. Our results are robust to different statistical models. We expand on earlier empirical findings on IR disclosure quality and provide valuable insights for research, practice and standard setting.

Suggested Citation:

Gerwanski, Jannik and Kordsachia, Othar and Velte, Patrick, Determinants of Materiality Disclosure Quality in Integrated Reporting: Empirical Evidence from an International Setting (December 26, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3755462
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
668
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies