Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Overlapping Audit and Compensation Committee Memberships on the Readability of Management Compensation Reports in the German HDAX

Posted: 27 Feb 2021

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Date Written: December 26, 2020

Abstract

This study focuses on the relationship between board effectiveness and management compensation reporting. Specifically, the effect of overlapping memberships in audit and compensation committees (OMAC) on the readability of management compensation reports (MCR) is analyzed. Using archival data from firms listed on the German HDAX between 2014 and 2018 (329 firm-year observations) and the Flesch Reading Ease index, regression analysis shows a positive significant effect of OMAC on MCR. Similar statistical results are found in a robustness check, which refers to an alternative readability score (the Gunning Fog index). Several corporate governance and firm characteristics are included as control variables, and fixed-effects panel regressions are used. This study provides empirical support for the agency-theoretical assumption that board effectiveness and knowledge spillovers decrease conflicts of interest and information asymmetry between boards of directors and shareholders.

Keywords: audit committee, compensation committee, management compensation reporting, overlapping membership, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Velte, Patrick, Effect of Overlapping Audit and Compensation Committee Memberships on the Readability of Management Compensation Reports in the German HDAX (December 26, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3755447
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
285
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies