Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carbon Performance and Disclosure: A Systematic Review of Governance-Related Determinants and Financial Consequences

Posted: 27 Feb 2021

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Martin Stawinoga

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Helmut Schmidt Universität

Rainer Lueg

Leuphana University of Lueneburg - Department of Accounting, Business & Management; University of Southern Denmark - Department of Accounting, Business & Management

Date Written: December 26, 2020

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to convey a thorough understanding of the governance-related determinants and financial consequences of carbon performance and disclosure. Its motivation lies in the increasing global political, social, academic as well as practical importance of managing and reporting on carbon-related issues. Methodologically, we employ a systematic literature review. Thus, we identify 73 quantitative peer-reviewed empirical studies in this field and categorize them according to a legitimacy-theory-based framework. Our four main contributions offer new insights into this emerging research field and provide guidance for the development of new research models: First, we help future researchers to structure this emerging field of research with respect to the interactions of the phenomenon itself (carbon performance vs. disclosure), its determinants (country- and firm-related governance), and its financial consequences (value relevance, information asymmetry, financial performance, and cost of capital). Second, we provide a comprehensive overview of variables and proxies used in the studies and list their main statistical effects, which facilitates building novel models. There are indications that 1) board composition positively influences both carbon performance and disclosure, 2) carbon performance and carbon disclosure are positively connected, 3) carbon disclosure reduces information asymmetry, and 4) carbon performance increases financial performance. Third, we develop a research agenda with concise suggestions for future studies. Fourth, we argue that due to the under-theorization of concepts the comparability of included studies is challenging, this research field may be characterized as a vibrant field for extensive future research.

Keywords: Carbon performance; carbon disclosure; corporate governance; management control; financial performance; legitimacy theory

Suggested Citation:

Velte, Patrick and Stawinoga, Martin and Lueg, Rainer, Carbon Performance and Disclosure: A Systematic Review of Governance-Related Determinants and Financial Consequences (December 26, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3755454
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
717
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies