Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Board Composition Influence CSR Reporting? A Meta-analysis

Posted: 27 Feb 2021

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Date Written: December 26, 2020

Abstract

A variety of empirical studies analyzed the impact of board attributes on Corporate social responsibility (CSR) reporting with mixed results during the last decade. In view of this heterogeneity and increased relevance, we conduct a meta-analysis on 51 empirical-quantitative studies and include board independence, absence of CEO duality, gender diversity and board size as key board attributes. We find that board independence and gender diversity are positively linked with CSR reporting. Furthermore, we examine whether this relationship is moderated by country-specific governance aspects (shareholder protection, legal enforcement and code law regime). We find that board independence and gender diversity are stronger related with CSR reporting in countries with higher range of shareholder protection and higher legal enforcement strength. We do not find any evidence for a moderator effect of code law regimes. To analyze the sensitivity of our study, we differentiate between CSR reporting measures (individual disclosure scores versus external CSR disclosure ratings) and publication quality of our included papers (journals of the ABS ranking) and found robust results. Recommendations for future research, practice and regulation will be discussed.

Suggested Citation:

Velte, Patrick, Does Board Composition Influence CSR Reporting? A Meta-analysis (December 26, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3755461
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
445
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies