Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Roles, Intent to Serve the Public Interest and Organizational Fit on Accounting Professionals’ Perceptions of Their Firms’ Ethical Environment, Reporting Intent, and Whistle Blowing: Evidence from Pakistan

32 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2021 Last revised: 8 May 2023

M. Farrukh Saeed

Karachi University Business School

Danish Ahmed Siddiqui

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Date Written: December 25, 2020

Abstract

It has been witnessed that the financial organization’s ethical environment plays important role in encouraging ethical behavior but prior research has shown organizational leaders perceive an ethical environment stronger than non-leaders. Hence, this paper aims to investigate Accounting Professionals’ (AP) Roles in firms’ ethical environment, their Intent to serve the public interest, and Organizational Fit. We also explored their combined effect on Audit firms’ Ethical Environment, as well as the ethicality of Finance professionals. We further investigated the impact of these variables on auditors’ reporting intent and their likelihood of reporting the client’s irregularities (Whistle Blowing). Drawing upon Bobek et. al. (2015) model of the ethical environment, we develop a conceptual framework explaining when and why whistleblowing takes place. We hypothesize that higher designation and positions would increase the APs’ Role to shape a firm’s ethical environment (R). Along with their Intent to serve Public Interest (P), and perceived Organizational Fit (OF), leads towards better Ethicality for firms as well as for APs. This increased ethicality decides the reporting intent of irregularities (RI) or even whistleblowing (WB). Empirical validity was established by conducting a survey using a close-ended questionnaire. Data was collected from 300 FPs and analyzed using confirmatory factor analysis and structured equation modeling. Results suggested that roles have a significant and positive impact on the ethical environment. Similarly, the ethicality of APs seems to affect RI positively, whereas RI leads to whistleblowing. Firms’ size also seems to have a positive effect on RI. Hence, reporting intent positively mediates the effect of the ethicality of APs and firm size on whistleblowing. Implications and limitations of the study are discussed.

Keywords: Whistleblowing, Leadership, Ethical Environment, Public Interest, Finance Professionals, Organizational Fit

Suggested Citation:

Saeed, M. Farrukh and Siddiqui, Danish Ahmed, The Effect of Roles, Intent to Serve the Public Interest and Organizational Fit on Accounting Professionals’ Perceptions of Their Firms’ Ethical Environment, Reporting Intent, and Whistle Blowing: Evidence from Pakistan (December 25, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3755247 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3755247
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
697
RANK
759,678
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies