Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
No-fault Default, Chapter 11 Bankruptcy, and Financial Institutions

Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming

MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 6382-20

35 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2021 Last revised: 6 Aug 2021

Robert C. Merton

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Harvard Business School - Finance Unit

Richard T. Thakor

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Carlson School of Management; Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Laboratory for Financial Engineering

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 27, 2020

Abstract

This paper analyzes the costs and benefits of a no-fault-default debt structure as an alternative to the typical bankruptcy process. We show that the deadweight costs of bankruptcy can be avoided or substantially reduced through no-fault-default debt, which permits a relatively seamless transfer of ownership from shareholders to bondholders in certain states of the world. We show that potential costs introduced by this scheme due to risk shifting can be attenuated via convertible debt, and we discuss the relationship of this to bail-in debt and contingent convertible (CoCo) debt for financial institutions. We then explore how, despite the advantages of no-fault-default debt, there may still be a functional role for the bankruptcy process to efficiently allow the renegotiation of labor contracts in certain cases. In sharp contrast to the human-capital-based theories of optimal capital structure in which the renegotiation of labor contract in bankruptcy is a cost associated with leverage, we show that it is a benefit. The normative implication of our analysis is that no-fault-default debt, when combined with specific features of the bankruptcy process, may reduce the deadweight costs associated with bankruptcy. We discuss how an orderly process for transfer of control and a predetermined admissibility of renegotiation of labor contracts can be a useful tool for resolving financial institution failure without harming financial stability.

Keywords: Bankruptcy, Default, Chapter 11, Capital Structure, Labor Contracts, Human Capital, Financial Institutions

JEL Classification: D21, G21, G23, G32, G33, G38, K12, L22

Suggested Citation:

Merton, Robert C. and Thakor, Richard T., No-fault Default, Chapter 11 Bankruptcy, and Financial Institutions (December 27, 2020). Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming, MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 6382-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756037 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3756037
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Viral V Acharya , Anjan V Thakor
The dark side of liquidity creation: Leverage and systemic risk
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 28 , p. 4 - 21 Posted: 2016
Edward I Altman
A further empirical investigation of the bankruptcy cost question
The Journal of Finance , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 1067 - 1089 Posted: 1984
Gregor Andrade , Steven N Kaplan
How costly is financial (not economic) distress? Evidence from highly leveraged transactions that became distressed
The Journal of Finance , volume 53 , p. 1443 - 1493 Posted: 1998
Paul Asquith , Robert Gertner , David Scharfstein
Anatomy of financial distress: An examination of junk-bond issuers
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 625 - 658 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
330
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,765
RANK
188,511
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

MIT Sloan School of Management Working Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies