Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Corporate Governance, Firm Size, Profitability, and Growth Opportunities on the Value Relevance of Accounting Earnings – a Study of the Indonesia Stock Exchange

Putri, S. E., & Panggabean, R. R. (2020). The Effects of Corporate Governance, Firm Size, Profitability, and Growth Opportunities on the Value Relevance of Accounting Earnings – a Study of the Indonesia Stock Exchange. Ultimaccounting: Jurnal Ilmu Akuntansi, 12(2), 174-193. https://doi.org/https://

20 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Surinastiti Eka Putri

Accounting Department, Faculty of Economics and Communication, Bina Nusantara University

Rosinta Ria Panggabean

Accounting Department, Faculty of Economics and Communication, Bina Nusantara University

Date Written: December 28, 2020

Abstract

Capital market serves as an alternative financing-wise and as a means investmentwise. Relevance of accounting information comes out as profound to investors as can be observed within the financial statements of a company. The aim of this study was to figure out the effects of corporate governance, firm size, profitability, and growth opportunities on the value relevance of accounting earnings. The present research used a quantitative method and secondary data in the form of annual reports, and the objects hired were 22 companies listed on the LQ45 index (August of 2018–January of 2019) of the Idonesia Stock Exchange for the period 2015–2017. Analysis was conducted by a descriptive statistical method. The results obtained showed that the variable profitability, which was measured on return on asset, affected the value relevance of accounting earnings, while the variables good corporate governance, firm size, and growth opportunities did not affect the value relevance of accounting earnings. Companies’ management is advocated to optimize the management of the assets in place as it was found in this research that return on asset had an effect on earnings response coefficient. This is necessary so that the companies are able to generate earnings response coefficients to which investors can respond positively.

Keywords: Earnings Response Coefficient, Firm Size, Good Corporate Governance, Growth Opportunities, Indonesia, Return On Asset

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Putri, Surinastiti Eka and Panggabean, Rosinta Ria, The Effects of Corporate Governance, Firm Size, Profitability, and Growth Opportunities on the Value Relevance of Accounting Earnings – a Study of the Indonesia Stock Exchange (December 28, 2020). Putri, S. E., & Panggabean, R. R. (2020). The Effects of Corporate Governance, Firm Size, Profitability, and Growth Opportunities on the Value Relevance of Accounting Earnings – a Study of the Indonesia Stock Exchange. Ultimaccounting: Jurnal Ilmu Akuntansi, 12(2), 174-193. https://doi.org/https://, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756492
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
S Alamsyah
Pengaruh Profitabilitas terhadap Nilai Perusahaan
Relevansi Nilai Informasi Akuntansi, Keputusan Investasi, Kebijakan Dividen Sebagai Variabel Intervening (Studi Empiris pada Perusahaan Indeks Kompas 100 Periode 2010-2013). Competitive Vol , volume 1 , p. 139 - 145 Posted: 2017
A A Alnodel
The impact of IFRS adoption on the value relevance of accounting information: Evidence from the insurance sector
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 138 - 148 Posted: 2018
Crossref
A T Basuki , N Prawoto
Posted: 2016
H Chesbrough
Business model innovation: opportunities and barriers. Long range planning , volume 43 , p. 354 - 363 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
217
ABSTRACT VIEWS
764
RANK
321,382
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies