Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Pledged Loans, Capital Markets, and Firm Performance in China

56 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Feng Li

Shanghai Advanced Institute of Finance, Shanghai Jiaotong University

Jun "QJ" Qian

Fudan University - International School of Finance (FISF); National University of Singapore (NUS) - Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER)

Haofei Wang

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU) - Shanghai Advanced Institute of Finance (SAIF)

Julie Zhu

Fanhai International School of Finance(FISF), Fudan University

Date Written: December 28, 2020

Abstract

Stock pledged loans have become prevalent among large shareholders of listed firms in China. The largest shareholder pledges a greater fraction of her holdings as collateral for credit when the firm is in growth industries, less profitable, not state owned, and has higher leverage. Stock performance of highly pledged firms is indistinguishable from that of firms with low pledge ratios in 2017. During 2018, however, highly pledged firms have worse stock returns and operating performance, and experienced ‘contagion’ – the crash risk of one highly pledged stock spreading to others. Using a regulatory reform in 2013 that allowed securities companies to provide stock pledged loans, we find that obtaining these personal loans had no adverse effects on the firms when the pledge ratio was low. Overall, forced sales of pledged stocks and worsened agency conflict are responsible for the poor performance of highly pledged firms during the 2018 bear market.

Keywords: Stock pledged loan, largest shareholder, return, momentum, related-party transactions.

JEL Classification: G12, G15, G3.

Suggested Citation:

Li, Feng and Qian, Jun and Wang, Haofei and Zhu, Julie, Stock Pledged Loans, Capital Markets, and Firm Performance in China (December 28, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3758847 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3758847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Stephen Penman , J Zhu
Accounting Anomalies, Risk and Return
Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 5 , p. 1835 - 1866 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Yin-Hua Yeh , C Ko , Y Su
Ultimate Control and Expropriation of Minority Shareholders: New Evidence from Taiwan
Academic Economic Papers , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 263 - 299 Posted: 2003
80% 100%
Posted: 2017-01
B Panel
Stock Pledge Ratio of the Largest Shareholder p50 p75 p90 Posted: 2016-12
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
316
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,470
RANK
218,958
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies