Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Practices of Private Commercial Banks in Bangladesh: A Comparative Study Among Three Generations

Journal of Business Research 1, no. 2 (2016): 251–268

18 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2021

Md. Tahidur Rahman

Bangladesh Army International University of Science and Technology (BAIUST) - Department of Business Administration; Bangladesh Army International University of Science and Technology

Md. Amir Sharif

Begum Rokeya University

Abstract

As transparency and disclosure are positively related, the recent shocks in the banking sectors of Bangladesh have brought disclosure issue in the limelight. Disclosure is the act of releasing all relevant information- well or bad- pertaining to a company that may influence an investment decision and to make it as fair as possible for everyone. Considering the years of establishment banks in Bangladesh are classified into three generations. Following the purposive sampling approach, six banks were selected to explore the disclosure magnitude of private commercial banks and to identify whether there was any significant difference in disclosure among the three generations banks. A researcher developed disclosure checklist containing 247 information items divided into ten groups were utilized in the study. Applying the Dichotomous scoring procedure the study found an average disclosure of 76 percent with a constant growth in disclosure percentage. The comparison of disclosure level among the years, among the sample banks, and among the categories found significant differences. The descriptive statistics of disclosure percentages among the three generations bank showed difference in disclosure level which were proved statistically insignificant.

Keywords: Banking Industry, Disclosure, Private Commercial Banks, Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Md. Tahidur and Rahman, Md. Tahidur and Sharif, Md. Amir Sharif, Disclosure Practices of Private Commercial Banks in Bangladesh: A Comparative Study Among Three Generations. Journal of Business Research 1, no. 2 (2016): 251–268, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3758536
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
E-mail: towhidais@gmail.com REFERENCES AB Bank Limited (n.d.). Website of AB bank limited Posted: 2014-01-15
A A A Ahmed
Compliance of financial disclosure in corporate annual reports of banking sector in Bangladesh Posted: 2009
M Akhtaruddin
Corporate mandatory disclosure practices in Bangladesh
International Journal of Accounting , volume 40 , p. 399 - 422 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Alam
Financial disclosure in developing countries with special reference to Bangladesh Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
505
RANK
658,366
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies