Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Banking Sector Earnings Management Using Loan Loss Provisions in the Fintech Era

International Journal of Managerial Finance, Forthcoming

28 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2021

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

This paper analyse banking sector earnings management using loan loss provisions in the Fintech era. The findings show evidence for bank income smoothing using loan loss provisions. There is greater income smoothing in the second-wave Fintech era compared to the first-wave Fintech era, and the presence of strong institutions did not lower income smoothing in the second wave era. Bank income smoothing is also greater in (i) BIS and EU countries than in non-EU countries and G7 countries, (ii) well-capitalised banking sectors, and (iii) during economic booms, in the second wave Fintech era. The implication is that the competition for loans and deposits by banks and Fintech lenders in the second-wave Fintech era created additional incentives for banks to engage in income smoothing to report competitive and stable earnings.

Keywords: banking sector, income smoothing, regulatory quality, legal quality, market power, Fintech, nonperforming loans, earnings smoothing, loan loss provisions, earnings management, digital finance

JEL Classification: G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Banking Sector Earnings Management Using Loan Loss Provisions in the Fintech Era (2021). International Journal of Managerial Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3758468 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3758468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
12 Citations
Tayseer Mohammad Afaishat , Mahmoud Alghizzawi , Sakher Faisal AlFraihat
The Impact of the E-Marketing Mix on Brand Equity in the Jordanian Banking Sector
Administrative Sciences , volume 15 , issue 6 , p. 232 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Peterson K. Ozili
Financial Inclusion, Sustainability, and the Influence of Religion and Technology
, p. 76 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Ayush Dimri
Non-Performing Loans
, volume 125 , p. 209 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Peterson K. Ozili
Financial Inclusion: Globally Important Determinants
Financial Internet Quarterly , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 1 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
933
RANK
344,140
12 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies