Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statement Audits and Data Breaches

Columbia Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2021 Last revised: 11 Apr 2024

Lisa Yao Liu

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Date Written: April 7, 2024

Abstract

Financial statement audits for public companies require auditors to test the internal controls over the client’s information systems that are material to the financial reporting process. Given the increasingly integrated nature of corporate data and control systems, a standard audit may have a positive effect on client firms’ other information systems, such as those that help prevent data breaches. In this paper, I provide evidence on whether and how auditors help prevent data breaches. Using plausibly exogenous improvements in auditing due to regulatory inspections and auditors’ cross-client learning, I find a decreased likelihood of data breaches among these auditors’ clients. Institutional insights gathered from interviews with accounting firm partners and industry professionals suggest two mechanisms for the role of auditors in preventing data breaches: the provision of relevant information and incentives for internal controls. Collectively, the findings provide evidence that improving accounting information systems can have a positive impact on non-accounting systems.

Keywords: Data breaches, auditing, internal control, information learning.

JEL Classification: C81, C82, M15, M42, M48, O14

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Lisa Yao, Financial Statement Audits and Data Breaches (April 7, 2024). Columbia Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3759027 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3759027
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue 1-2 , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
J G Altonji , T E Elder , C R Taber
Selection on observed and unobserved variables: Assessing the effectiveness of Catholic schools
Journal of Political Economy , volume 113 , issue 1 , p. 151 - 184 Posted: 2005
M D C G Alves
Information technology roles in accounting tasks-A multiple-case study
International Journal of Trade, Economics and Finance , volume 1 , issue 1 Posted: 2010
The effects of computer processing on the audit of financial statements Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,856
RANK
39,767
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies