Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Corporate Governance of Environmental Sustainability: A Review and Proposal for More Integrated Research

Forthcoming at Journal of Management, Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 3760077

81 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Ruth V. Aguilera

Northeastern University (USA) - Department of International Business and Strategy

J. Alberto Aragón‐Correa

University of Granada

Valentina Marano

Northeastern University - D'Amore-McKim School of Business, Department of International Business & Strategy

Pete Tashman

University of Massachusetts Lowell

Abstract

As corporations’ environmental impact comes under greater scrutiny by global financial, regulatory, and societal stakeholders, management scholars have increasingly focused on the role of corporate governance as a tool for driving environmental initiatives. Still, we lack a comprehensive and systematic understanding of this emergent body of inquiry and a holistic agenda for future research. To address this gap, our integrative framework relates the key corporate governance actors to environmental sustainability outcomes from the extant literature and highlights its main methodological approaches and theoretical arguments. Our framework provides a critical analysis of what we know and points to the knowledge gaps around owners, boards of directors, CEOs, top management teams, and employees as corporate governance actors. We then highlight limitations in the existing literature as significant opportunities for further research to resolve ambiguous conceptualizations of environmental sustainability constructs, various methodological and theoretical challenges, its incomplete engagement with the global dimension of environmental sustainability, and its limited analysis of how corporate governance actors may interact to shape environmental sustainability outcomes. We conclude by proposing novel approaches for addressing these issues, which we believe could generate a better way forward on studying the corporate governance of environmental sustainability.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Environmental Sustainability, Ownership, Boards of Directors, CEO, Top Management Team, Employees

Suggested Citation:

Aguilera, Ruth V. and Aragón‐Correa, J. Alberto and Marano, Valentina and Tashman, Peter, The Corporate Governance of Environmental Sustainability: A Review and Proposal for More Integrated Research. Forthcoming at Journal of Management, Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 3760077, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3760077 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3760077
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
143 References
R Adams , S Jeanrenaud , J Bessant , D Denyer , P Overy
Sustainability-oriented innovation: A systematic review
International Journal of Management Reviews , volume 18 , p. 180 - 205 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R V Aguilera , K Desender , M K Bednar , J H Lee
Connecting the dots: Bringing external corporate governance into the corporate governance puzzle
Academy of Management Annals , volume 9 , p. 483 - 573 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R V Aguilera , I Haxhi
Comparative corporate governance in emerging markets Posted: 2019
Crossref
Oxford handbook on management in emerging markets , p. 185 - 217
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
834
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,056
RANK
67,224
33 Citations
143 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies