Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Delayed Updating of Fair Values: Lack of Information or Intentional Delays?

IESE Business School Working Paper

54 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2021 Last revised: 20 Jul 2021

Asher Curtis

University of Washington; Department of Accounting

Robert A. Raney

IESE Business School; University of Washington

Date Written: December 24, 2020

Abstract

Using a sample of illiquid assets we provide evidence of the delay of updating fair values of individual assets reported in financial statements (delayed updating). Although we find that some delayed updating is due to a lack of information, we find more evidence consistent with intentional delays, including when incentives and ability to delay are higher, and when delaying bad news. We also find that delayed updating is mitigated with stronger monitoring and governance. Finally, we reconcile our asset-level evidence to prior portfolio-level findings and find that firms with more asset-level delayed updating have higher portfolio serial correlation and lower value relevance.

Keywords: Fair Value Estimates, Delayed Updating, Financial Reporting Quality; Partial Updating

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Curtis, Asher and Raney, Robert A., Delayed Updating of Fair Values: Lack of Information or Intentional Delays? (December 24, 2020). IESE Business School Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3760320 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3760320
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,179
RANK
381,025
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IESE Business School Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies