Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Country‐, Firm‐ and Director‐level Risk and Responsibilities and Independent Director Compensation

Corporate Governance: An International Review, Forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Andrea Melis

University of Cagliari

Luigi Rombi

Universita di Cagliari - Department of Business and Economics; Universita di Cagliari - Department of Business and Economics

Date Written: December 20, 2020

Abstract

Research Question
This study investigates how and to what extent country‐level institutional characteristics, firm‐ and independent director‐level risk and responsibilities are related to independent director compensation, in terms of amount and design.

Research findings/Insights
Using an international sample of 5,220 independent directors on 727 non‐financial listed firms in 16 countries, this study revealed that both country‐level institutional characteristics and firm‐ and director‐level agency account for the variation of independent director compensation amount. Firm‐level ESG‐related reputational risk and director‐level observable responsibilities on the board are strongly related to independent director compensation amount. These agency relationships vary in the different institutional settings. Country‐level director liability substitutes for firm‐level and director‐level monitoring. Firms conform to institutional pressures for independent director compensation design. Institutional embeddedness comes from the firm’s primary institutional environment and its exposure to foreign financial markets.

Theoretical/Academic implications
This study develops a multilevel theory of the antecedents of independent director compensation. Firm‐ and director‐level agency issues are nested in, and interact with, the institutional context in which the agency relationship between shareholders and independent directors is embedded.

Practitioner/Policy Implications
This study helps practitioners to understand how director liability regulations, a firm’s ESG‐related reputational risk and the specific responsibilities on the board are related to independent director compensation. It helps firms explain to shareholders (and stakeholders) how independent director compensation is determined. Firms should consider that the consequences of their ESG practices extend beyond direct costs. Policymakers can find our results useful when regulating on director liability and developing best practices.



Keywords: corporate governance, independent director, compensation, esg, reputational risk, director liability

JEL Classification: G30,G34, M40, M12

Suggested Citation:

Melis, Andrea and Rombi, Luigi, Country‐, Firm‐ and Director‐level Risk and Responsibilities and Independent Director Compensation (December 20, 2020). Corporate Governance: An International Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3760330
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
127 References
F Brochet , S Srinivasan
Accountability of independent directors: Evidence from firms subject to securities litigation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 111 , p. 430 - 449 Posted: 2014
Crossref
K Brown
New demands, better boards: rethinking director compensation in an era of heighetened corporate governance
New York University Law Review , volume 82 , p. 1102 - 1138 Posted: 2007-10
M Bugeja , S Fohn , Z Matolcsy
Determinants of the levels and changes in non-executive director compensation
Accounting & Finance , volume 56 , issue 3 , p. 627 - 667 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J J Burke , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor response to negative media coverage of client environmental, social, and governance practices
Accounting Horizons , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
501
RANK
469,965
3 Citations
127 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies