Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management to Avoid Earnings Boosts

Makarem, N. and Roberts, C. (2020), "Earnings management to avoid earnings boosts", Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Vol. 21 No. 4, pp. 657-676. https://doi.org/10.1108/JAAR-01-2019-0012

42 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Naser Makarem

University of Aberdeen

Clare Roberts

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 27, 2019

Abstract

Purpose: The purpose of this study is to investigate whether earnings boosts before the year-end trigger earnings management. It examines whether firms that substantially outperformed their last year earnings during the first three quarters push their earnings down to avoid reporting earnings boosts.

Design/Methodology/Approach: Regression analysis is used to compare earnings management of firms with earnings boosts and other firms.

Findings: The results indicate that firms outperforming their last year results by the end of the third quarter manipulate their earnings downwards by means of real activities manipulation, while they do not indicate income-decreasing accruals management. It is also found that, consistent with the prominent shift from accruals management to real activities manipulation, accruals management is more costly which justifies why real activities manipulation is used for downward manipulation.

Research limitations/implications: The results are limited to one single earnings benchmark i.e. last year earnings. Further research may individually or collectively examine other benchmarks including analysts’ forecasts.

Implications: The findings suggest that users should be more vigilant of firms exceeding their last year interim results as they could be involved in downward earnings management.

Originality: This study documents earnings management in a new setting where earnings boosts before the year-end trigger downward manipulation.


Keywords: Earnings Management, Real Activities Manipulation, Accruals Management, Quarterly Earnings

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Makarem, Naser and Roberts, Clare, Earnings Management to Avoid Earnings Boosts (August 27, 2019). Makarem, N. and Roberts, C. (2020), "Earnings management to avoid earnings boosts", Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Vol. 21 No. 4, pp. 657-676. https://doi.org/10.1108/JAAR-01-2019-0012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3761767
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
383
RANK
697,608
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies