Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Distress, Tax Loss Carried Forward, Corporate Governance and Tax Avoidance

Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Khamisan, M.S.P; Christina, S. 2020. Financial Distress, Tax Loss Carried Forward, Corporate Governance and Tax Avoidance, Acc. Fin. Review, 5 (3): 87 – 94. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2020.5.3(1)

8 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2021

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Mayang Sekar Pembayun Khamisan

Accounting, Trisakti School of Management, Indonesia

Silvy Christina

Trisakti School of Management

Date Written: December 31, 2020

Abstract


Objective - This study aims to obtain empirical evidence about the factors that influence tax avoidance. The independent variables tested in this research were financial distress, tax loss carried forward, institutional ownership, managerial ownership, audit committee, audit quality, firm size, and return on assets with e Cash Effective Tax Rate (CETR) used as a dependent variable in this study.

Methodology/Technique - The companies used in this study are manufacturing companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) with a research period of 2016-2018. The number of research samples used were 162 data. The method of sampling used purposive sampling and this research used multiple regression analyses to test the hypothesis.

Finding - This research provides the result that financial distress, tax loss carried forward, institutional ownership, managerial ownership, audit committee, audit quality, firm size, and return on assets have no influence on tax avoidance.

Originality/value - The difference between this study and previous studies is that this study focuses on financial distress, tax loss carried forward and corporate governance.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Financial Distress, Tax Loss Carried Forward, Institutional Ownership, Managerial Ownership, Audit Committee, Audit Quality, Firm Size, Return on Assets, Cash Effective Tax Rate.

JEL Classification: M41, M49.

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Khamisan, Mayang Sekar Pembayun and Christina, Silvy, Financial Distress, Tax Loss Carried Forward, Corporate Governance and Tax Avoidance (December 31, 2020). Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Khamisan, M.S.P; Christina, S. 2020. Financial Distress, Tax Loss Carried Forward, Corporate Governance and Tax Avoidance, Acc. Fin. Review, 5 (3): 87 – 94. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2020.5.3(1), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3762970
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Fitri Damayanti , Tridahus Susanto
The Effect of Audit Committee, Institutional Ownership, Firm Risk and Return on Assets to Tax Avoidance
Journal of Business and Management , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 187 - 206 Posted: 2015
Gede Darmawan , I Made Hendy , Sukartha
The Effect of Good Corporate Governance, Leverage, Return on Assets, and Firm Size to Tax Avoidance
Udayana University Accounting E-Journal , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 143 - 161 Posted: 2014
M A Desai , D Dharmapala
Corporate tax avoidance and firm value
The review of Economics and Statistics , volume 91 , issue 3 , p. 537 - 546 Posted: 2009
Crossref
I A R Dewinta , P E Setiawan
The influence of company size, company age, profitability, leverage, and sales growth on tax avoidance
E-Journal of Accounting at Udayana University , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 1584 - 1613 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
378
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,018
RANK
179,657
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies