Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Quality and Workplace Safety

58 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2021

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Danye Wang

University of Iowa

Heng Yue

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Jianyu Zhao

Central University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: January 8, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of internal information quality on workplace safety. Using establishment-level data on workplace injuries from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and employing a strict fixed-effects structure, we show that higher information quality is associated with significantly lower work-related injury rates. Further investigation reveals that the effect is stronger when more decision rights reside in headquarters, weaker when employees have greater bargaining power, and weaker when firms are subject to financial constraints. Our findings are robust to the use of two plausibly exogenous shocks and other robustness checks. Our study suggests an important economic consequence of information quality not examined by prior literature.

Keywords: Information quality, Workplace safety, Employee welfare, Management accounting

JEL Classification: G30, G38, M10, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Wang, Danye and Yue, Heng and Zhao, Jianyu, Information Quality and Workplace Safety (January 8, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3762656 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3762656
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A K Agrawal , D A Matsa
Labor unemployment risk and corporate financing decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 2 , p. 449 - 470 Posted: 2013
Alcoa
Safety at Alcoa -Programs that Work
Oak Ridge Business Safety Forum Posted: 2013
H Almeida , M Campello
Financial constraints, asset tangibility, and corporate investment
Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , issue 5 , p. 1429 - 1460 Posted: 2007
J J Bai , E Lee , C Zhang
Capital market frictions and human capital investment: Evidence from workplace safety around regulation SHO
The Financial Review , volume 55 , issue 2 , p. 339 - 360 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
913
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,217
RANK
59,382
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies