Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Compensation and Firm Performance in Emerging Market: Evidence from Indonesia Selected Listed Banks

Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Azazi, A. 2020. CEO Compensation and Firm Performance in Emerging Market: Evidence from Indonesia Selected Listed Banks, Acc. Fin. Review, 5 (3): 95 – 109. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2020.5.3(2)

Posted: 22 Mar 2021

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Anwar Azazi

Department of Management, Faculty of Economics & Business, Tanjungpura University, Pontianak, Indonesia.

Date Written: December 31, 2020

Abstract

Objective - The objective of this study was to investigate empirically the relationship between the compensation of chief executive officers (CEO) and a firm's performance in the banking industry and to examine if CEO compensation affects bank performance differently between banks with and without prospect.

Methodology/Technique - The author uses two measures of performance, total return on assets and Tobin, s Q, and concentrate on total CEO compensation. All data are collected from annual reports of banks listed in Indonesia Stock Exchange for a sample of 23 commercial banks or 167 firm-year observation over the 2009-2018 period utilizing the purposive random sampling technique. CEO compensation and bank performance are then analysed employing pooled regression method.

Finding - This study finds supporting evidence for the agency-related problem in the banking industry in Indonesia. It then proves that high CEO compensation does have an inverse effect on bank performance, mainly on firm value. It also provides evidence that the pay-performance also demonstrates different patterns in firms with and without prospect.

Novelty - This study uses novel and hand-collected data on CEO compensation in the banking industry and developing econometric evidence regarding CEO pay-performance relating to banks with and without prospect.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: CEO compensation; Financial performance; banking industry.

JEL Classification: M41 G21, G32, M12.

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Azazi, Anwar, CEO Compensation and Firm Performance in Emerging Market: Evidence from Indonesia Selected Listed Banks (December 31, 2020). Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Azazi, A. 2020. CEO Compensation and Firm Performance in Emerging Market: Evidence from Indonesia Selected Listed Banks, Acc. Fin. Review, 5 (3): 95 – 109. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2020.5.3(2), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3762972
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
388
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies