Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Leadership Style, Intellectual Capital and Corporate Social Responsibility on Performance, a Comparison Model of Listed Companies in Indonesia

Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Gantino, R; Ruswanti, E; Rachman, T. 2020. Leadership Style, Intellectual Capital and Corporate Social Responsibility on Performance, a Comparison Model of Listed Companies in Indonesia., Acc. Fin. Review, 5 (3): 110 – 120. https://doi.org/10.35609/

11 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2021

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Rilla Gantino

Esa Unggul University

Endang Ruswanti

Esa Unggul University

Taufiqur Rachman

Industrial Enginering, Esa Unggul, Kebon Jeruk, 1150, Jakarta, Indonesia

Date Written: December 31, 2020

Abstract


Objective - This paper aims to examine the influence of Leadership Style, Intellectual Capital, and Corporate Social Responsibility on Performance in companies in the sub-sectors of Mining, Pharmacy and Consumption and Household, Basic Industry, Chemical and Infrastructure, Utility and Telecommunication listed on Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) 2012-2018.

Methodology/Technique - In this research, leadership style is measured transformationally and transactionally. Meanwhile, Intellectual Capital is measured using VAICTM. Furthermore, Corporate Social Responsibility is measured using GRI G4, and Financial Performance is proxied by ROA, ROE, and sales growth. The method used is a saturated sample. The sample in this research was 50 companies in the Basic and Chemical Industry sub-sector, 28 companies in the infrastructure, utilities, and telecommunications sub-sectors, 38 mining sub-sector companies, and 17 companies in the consumer goods sub-sector listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX). This research used secondary data taken from financial and annual reports and primary data obtained through questionnaires for leadership style. The analysis method used is simple regression analysis.

Findings & Novelty - The results show that the influence of leadership style, intellectual capital, and corporate social responsibility in the four sectors varies with a positive or negative relationship direction. Intellectual capital has a positive significant influence on ROA, ROE and SG in four sectors. Previous research has focused on only one sector. This study compares the influence of leadership style, intellectual capital, and corporate social responsibility in four sectors

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Comparison; Leadership Style; Intellectual Capital; CSR; Performance

JEL Classification: M41 M41, M49.

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Gantino, Rilla and Ruswanti, Endang and Rachman, Taufiqur, Leadership Style, Intellectual Capital and Corporate Social Responsibility on Performance, a Comparison Model of Listed Companies in Indonesia (December 31, 2020). Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Gantino, R; Ruswanti, E; Rachman, T. 2020. Leadership Style, Intellectual Capital and Corporate Social Responsibility on Performance, a Comparison Model of Listed Companies in Indonesia., Acc. Fin. Review, 5 (3): 110 – 120. https://doi.org/10.35609/, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3762973
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
O S Agyemang , A Ansong
Corporate social responsibility and firm performance of Ghanaian SMEs
Journal of Global Responsibility Posted: 2017
Crossref
M A K Al-Musali , K N I Ku Ismail
Intellectual capital and its effect on financial performance of banks: Evidence from Saudi Arabia
Procedia-Social and Behavioral Sciences , volume 164 , p. 201 - 207 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Crossref
M J Y Al-Tal , O L Emeagwali
Knowledge-based HR practices and innovation in SMEs
Organizacija , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 6 - 21 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
542
RANK
649,230
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies