Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cognitive Determinants of Aggressive Financial Reporting – The Combined Effects of Ego Depletion, Moral Identity, and an Ethical Intervention

46 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2021

John Lauck

Louisiana Tech University - School of Accounting & Information Systems

Eric Michael Negangard

University of Virginia; University of Virginia

Joseph Rakestraw

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Date Written: January 8, 2021

Abstract

We experimentally investigate the combined effects of ego depletion, moral identity, and ethical interventions on managers’ financial reporting aggressiveness in the development of an accounting estimate. We find that decision makers with high moral identity become more aggressive later in the day (once they become ego depleted), but those with low moral identity do not. We also find that an ethical intervention has a significant influence on the reporting judgments of depleted decision makers with low moral identity, but not on the judgments of depleted decision makers with high moral identity. However, the opposite effect occurs when decision makers are not depleted. That is, an ethical intervention has a significant influence on the financial reporting judgments of undepleted decision makers with high moral identity, but not on the judgments of undepleted decision makers with low moral identity. Supplemental analyses reveal different patterns of decision makers’ cognitive dissonance across experimental conditions.

Keywords: Aggressive Financial Reporting, Ego Depletion, Moral Identity, Ethics

JEL Classification: M1, M14, M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lauck, John and Negangard, Eric Michael and Negangard, Eric Michael and Rakestraw, Joseph, Cognitive Determinants of Aggressive Financial Reporting – The Combined Effects of Ego Depletion, Moral Identity, and an Ethical Intervention (January 8, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3762591 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3762591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
K Aquino
The effects of ethical climate and the availability of alternatives on the use of deception during negotiation
International Journal of Conflict Management , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 95 - 217 Posted: 1998
Crossref
K Aquino , D Freeman , A Reed , V K Ii , &amp; W Lim , Felps
Testing a social-cognitive model of moral behavior: The interactive influence of situations and moral identity centrality
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 164 Posted: 2009
Crossref
K Aquino , &amp; A Reed , I I
The self-importance of moral identity
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 83 , issue 6 , p. 1423 - 1463 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Bandura
Social cognitive theory of moral thought and action
Handbook of moral behavior and development , p. 69 - 128 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,263
RANK
469,965
1 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies