Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Will Loyalty Shares Do Much for Corporate Short-Termism?

76 Business Lawyer 467 (2021)

42 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2021 Last revised: 20 Apr 2021

Mark J. Roe

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Federico Cenzi Venezze

Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton - Milan Office

Date Written: January 11, 2021

Abstract


Stock-market short-termism—stemming from rapid trading and activists looking for quick cash—is, a widespread view has it, hurting the American economy. Because stock markets will not support corporate long-term planning, the thinking goes, companies fail to invest enough, do not do enough research and development, and buy back so much of their stock that their coffers are depleted of cash for their future.

This widespread view has induced proposals for remedy. One major proposal is for corporate “loyalty shares,” whereby stockholders who own their stock for longer periods would get more voting power than those who trade their stock quickly. That voting boost would, it’s hoped, support stability and sound long-term planning. Venture capitalists have already obtained the go-ahead from the Securities and Exchange Commission to found the “Long-Term Stock-Exchange,” as it is called—whose centerpiece has been loyalty shares and their concomitant voting boost for companies on the new exchange.

In this article, we show why loyalty shares promoters’ thinking is overly optimistic. Facilitating insider control will be loyalty shares’ dominant motive and effect. Long-term thinking, planning, and investing will be weaker motivations and effects. Indeed, loyalty shares will at times undermine long-term planning at companies that use them.

Loyalty share voting boosts would shift voting power in those U.S. public companies that adopt them, but they will not shift voting power toward shareholders most likely to promote the long-term. Instead, we should expect loyalty shares to empower conflicted corporate players who seek not more corporate focus on the long-term but to better protect themselves and their corporate positions. Controller-insider self-interest will dominate their motivation, not fighting short-termism, because insiders have self-interested reasons to lock in control and shut down outsiders, even if doing so fails to improve corporate time horizons. Policymakers with a bona fide long-term vision will find themselves frustrated by the outcome.

Existing data from Europe, where loyalty shares are more extensively used thus far than in the United States, supports this structural analysis. Control motivations dominate; long-term motivations are pale or absent from the on-the-ground practice.

Other reasons—as yet undiscussed as far as we can tell—may well justify opening corporate law to loyalty share programs. We introduce to the loyalty share analysis the ex ante value to the entrepreneur of retaining control—i.e., loyalty shares can help to motivate founders and thereby induce new entry, new start-ups, and new, original entrepreneurial activity. Weighing the value of continued control in fostering start-ups and original entrepreneurial activity against its later costs is not easy and it is not obvious which weighs more but, if there is economy-wide value to loyalty shares, that motivational value is where it is likely to reside. For short-termism, policymakers should be skeptical that promoting sound corporate long-termism will be a major result of facilitating loyalty shares in the American corporation.


Keywords: loyalty shares, tenure voting, time phase voting, Long Term Stock Exchange, short-termism, long-term

JEL Classification: D72, E71, G18, G34, G38, G41, K22, L21

Suggested Citation:

Roe, Mark J. and Cenzi Venezze, Federico, Will Loyalty Shares Do Much for Corporate Short-Termism? (January 11, 2021). 76 Business Lawyer 467 (2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3763970 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3763970
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
Rebecca Henderson , Reimagining Capitalism
A WORLD ON FIRE , volume 123 Posted: 2020
Crossref
E Y See , Study , Directors&apos; Duties , Sustainable , Governance
mc_cid=664fe83cf0&mc_eid=657d91711d (report to the EU recommending loyalty shares Posted: 2020
Mark Roe , Holger Spamann
Jesse Fried & Charles Wang, The Sustainable Corporate Governance Initiative in Europe
38 YALE J. ON REG. ONLINE BULL Posted: 2021
Tom Vos , Ecgi Roundtable ; See , Adriana De , L A Cruz , Alejandra Medina &amp; Yung , Owners Tang , Of , World&apos;s Listed , Com
LOYALTY SHARES , volume 2 Posted: 2018-06-18
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Hubert de La Bruslerie
Multiple class shares and double voting rights: Literature review and research prospects
Finance Contrôle Stratégie , volume 26-3 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Hubert de La Bruslerie
Les classes d’actions multiples et actions à droits de vote double : Etat de la littérature et renouveau de la problématique
Finance Contrôle Stratégie , volume 26-3 Posted: 2023
Crossref
François Belot , Edith Ginglinger , Laura T. Starks
Encouraging long-term shareholders: The effects of loyalty shares with double voting rights
Finance , volume Vol. 45 , issue 1 , p. 3 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
828
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,049
RANK
67,889
3 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies