Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $6.25
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Innovation Through M&A: Promega's Taxable Acquisition of Ophidian

Darden Case No. UVA-C-2432

6 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2021 Last revised: 18 Feb 2022

Mary Margaret Frank

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Lisa Harrison

Independent

Abstract

The tax director for Promega Corporation (Promega), was finalizing a deal to buy Ophidian Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Ophidian), and needed to settle on a deal structure. Given that the consideration paid for Ophidian was going to be primarily cash, the deal would be taxable. The question for her to address was: Should Promega buy the assets or stock of Ophidian? She had to consider the after-tax consequences to Promega and Ophidian from the different deal structures, in order to figure out the optimal deal structure and be well prepared to negotiate. Promega's chairman and CEO was ready to make the deal happen and a board meeting was on the schedule to discuss the specifics.

Excerpt

UVA-C-2432

Rev. Feb. 7, 2022

Innovation through M&A: Promega's Taxable Acquisition of Ophidian

Christine Webber had just finished another long day with her deal team at Promega Corporation (Promega), and she decided to stop by the Avenue Bar for dinner and a brandy Old Fashioned. She and her team had been working overtime that summer to finalize a deal to buy Ophidian Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Ophidian), and the next day, they needed to settle on a deal structure. Sipping on the classic Wisconsin cocktail, she reviewed the options for the deal between the two companies based in Madison, Wisconsin. Given that the consideration paid for Ophidian was going to be primarily cash, the deal would be taxable. The question for Webber to address was: Should Promega buy the assets or stock of Ophidian? As Promega's Director of Tax, Webber had to consider the after-tax consequences to Promega and Ophidian of the different deal structures, in order to figure out the optimal deal structure and be well prepared to negotiate. Promega's chairman and CEO, William Linton, was ready to make the deal happen and had called a board meeting to discuss the specifics. Webber was to advise the CFO, who would eventually have to justify the deal structure to Promega's board of directors (BOD). If the companies could agree on a deal structure, Webber and her team would work on facilitating the acquisition of Ophidian before the end of 2000.

Ophidian Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

Ophidian was founded in Madison in November 1989 as a development-stage company for the research and development of human pharmaceuticals, specifically focusing on infectious disease products. In August 1990, operations officially began to produce proprietary antibody pharmaceuticals, collect milestone payments and licensing fees for research on products and development, and establish royalties and profit-sharing agreements for sale of its proprietary products by its commercial partners.

. . .

Keywords: merger, acquisition, tax, deal structure, pharmaceutical, asset sale, stock sale, 338(g) election, negotiation

Suggested Citation:

Frank, Mary Margaret and Harrison, Lisa, Innovation Through M&A: Promega's Taxable Acquisition of Ophidian. Darden Case No. UVA-C-2432, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3763091
Purchase - $6.25
8 References
Inc Ophidian Pharmaceuticals , Sec Filings
Posted: 1999-02-23
SEC filings, filed December 29 Posted: 1999-01-16
Inc Ophidian Pharmaceuticals , Sec Filings
Posted: 1999-06-29
Inc Ophidian Pharmaceuticals , Sec Filings
Posted: 2000-04-12
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6
ABSTRACT VIEWS
763
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Darden Case Collection

Follow

Finance Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies