Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Take on Voice: The Influence of BlackRock’s 'Dear CEO' Letters

67 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Andrea Pawliczek

University of Colorado at Boulder

A. Nicole Skinner

University of Colorado at Boulder

Laura Wellman

Pennsylvania State University; Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting; Penn State University

Date Written: January 2021

Abstract

We examine whether broad-based public engagement by institutional investors influences the behavior of portfolio firms. We investigate this question in the context of BlackRock’s annual “Dear CEO” letter, which in recent years has called for portfolio firms to acknowledge and quantify the impact of environmental and regulatory factors on their firms. We find that portfolio firms’ disclosures reflect topics similar to those discussed in the letters during the post-letter period, controlling for a variety of firm and disclosure characteristics, and the occurrence of private engagements. Moreover, BlackRock appears to value these additional disclosures, as it more often votes with management on shareholder proposals during subsequent annual shareholder meetings. Finally, motivated by BlackRock’s attempts to mobilize firms toward its specific policy recommendations, we also provide some evidence that firms’ lobbying efforts become more aligned with the issues highlighted in the letter during the post-letter period, especially when firms’ share BlackRock’s policy preferences ex ante. Taken together, our evidence suggests that portfolio firms are responsive to BlackRock’s public engagement efforts.

Keywords: Institutional Ownership, Shareholder Engagement, Shareholder Voice, Disclosure, ESG, Lobbying

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Pawliczek, Andrea and Skinner, Ashley Nicole and Wellman, Laura, A New Take on Voice: The Influence of BlackRock’s 'Dear CEO' Letters (January 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3763042 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3763042
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
I Abramova , J E Core , A Sutherland
Institutional investor attention and firm disclosure. The Accounting Review, Forthcoming Posted: 2020
A Alesina , N Roubini , G D Cohen
Political cycles and the macroeconomy Posted: 1997
Crossref
I R Appel , T A Gormley , D B Keim
Passive investors, not passive owners
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 141 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Riddha Basu , Spencer Pierce , Andrew Stephan
The Effect of Investor Inattention on non-GAAP Disclosure
Pages: 51 Posted: 16 Nov 2017 Last revised: 4 Aug 2025
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
845
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,309
RANK
66,091
20 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies