Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Market Response to Mandatory Disclosure of Payments to Foreign Governments under the Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act

59 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2021

Fayez A. Elayan

Brock University-Goodman School of Business

Parunchana Pacharn

Brock University

Jennifer Li

Brock University

Kareen Brown

Brock University

Yijia Chen

Brock University - Goodman School of Business

Date Written: January 10, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the equity market response to mandated disclosures made according to the Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act (ESTMA). Using a sample of 1,559 company-year-country filings from 937 extractive firms between 2016 and 2018, we find that ESTMA disclosures are associated with a significantly negative market reaction. We also find that investors react more negatively to ESTMA disclosures from firms with lower perceived transparency, firms that make payments to more corrupt host countries, firms with higher information asymmetry, and firms with disclosures under the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). Consistent with results from prior studies of other transparency measures outside of Canada, ours indicate that the overall impact of ESTMA is negative for an average firm. Thus, we suggest that the costs of increased transparency that firms internalize from the enactment of ESTMA exceed the benefits. There is a global trend in which countries have adopted or plan to adopt transparency measures to combat corruption. These transparency measures differ widely in their approach and scope, therefore, our results provide an important insight to regulators, investors, and civil societies.

Suggested Citation:

Elayan, Fayez A. and Pacharn, Parunchana and Li, Jingyu and Brown, Kareen and Chen, Yijia, The Market Response to Mandatory Disclosure of Payments to Foreign Governments under the Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act (January 10, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3764053 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3764053
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
D Acemoglu , J A Robinson
Why nations fail: The origins of power, prosperity, and poverty Posted: 2012
Crossref
R Auty
Sustaining development in mineral economies: The resource curse thesis Posted: 1993
R Auty
The political economy of resource-driven growth
European Economic Review , volume 45 , issue 4-6 , p. 839 - 846 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Auty
Patterns of rent-extraction and deployment in developing countries: Implications for governance, economic policy and performance
Advancing development: Core themes in global economics , p. 555 - 557 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
796
RANK
487,089
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies