Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Audit Committee in Corporate Governance

HOCG (2020), “The Audit Committee in Corporate Governance”, Corporate Governance and Boards: Views and Insights, Issue 2, December, ISSN: 2634-1050

8 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 23 Feb 2021

Christos Grose

Hellenic Observatory of Corporate Governance (HOCG)

Dimitrios N. Koufopoulos

Gnosis Management Consultants; HOCG (Hellenic Observatory of Corporate Governance; Queen Mary University of London - Centre for Commercial Law Studies (CCLS)

Ioannis P. Gkliatis

Hellenic Observatory of Corporate Governance (HOCG); University of Hertfordshire - Business School; Gnosis Management Consultants

Konstantinos Athanasiadis

Birkbeck, University of London; Hellenic Observatory of Corporate Governance (HOCG)

Michail Fygkioris

University of Macedonia, School of Business Administration; Hellenic Observatory of Corporate Governance (HOCG)

Date Written: December 1, 2020

Abstract

Sabranes-Oxley has given prominence to the Board of Directors (BoD) as a basic tool towards resolving the agency problem. Regulatory authorities have ever since viewed the BoD as a major monitoring mechanism. The BoD closely monitors the decisions of the managers and ascertains that decision-making within the company follows agreed schemes and formal documentation.

Keywords: corporate governance, boards, audit committee, Greece

Suggested Citation:

Grose, Christos and Koufopoulos, Dimitrios N. and Koufopoulos, Dimitrios N. and Gkliatis, Ioannis P. and Athanasiadis, Konstantinos and Fygkioris, Michail, The Audit Committee in Corporate Governance (December 1, 2020). HOCG (2020), “The Audit Committee in Corporate Governance”, Corporate Governance and Boards: Views and Insights, Issue 2, December, ISSN: 2634-1050, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3764449
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
R Anderson , D Reeb
Board Composition: Balancing Family Influence in S&P 500 Firms
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 49 , issue 2 , p. 209 - 237 Posted: 2004
Corporate governance policy in the European Union
Through an Investor's Lens Codes Posted: 2016
K D Chen , A Wu
The structure of board committees Posted: 2016
A Dwekat , E Seguí-Mas , G Tormo-Carbó , P C A R M O N A
corporate social responsibility disclosure: Qualitative comparative analysis of audit committee and board characteristics
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 27 , issue 6 , p. 2879 - 2892
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
523
RANK
580,030
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies