Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Users’ Engagement in Shaping Financial Reporting: Should Activists Target Accounting More?

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2021 Last revised: 27 Apr 2021

Beatriz Garcia Osma

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid ; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Cristina Grande-Herrera

Comillas Pontifical University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: March 23, 2021

Abstract

We define accounting engagement as stakeholders’ actions taken with the intention of influencing corporate reporting. Using this definition, we review the literature on such activism and discuss avenues for research. The evidence reviewed suggests accounting engagement is rare. We reflect on the reasons of this, given evidence on increasing overt engagement on other corporate issues, such as managerial compensation and governance, social, and environmental responsibility. Both information production and information acquisition costs have decreased over time, raising further questions about why engagement has not increased. We consider potential reasons linked to concerns over whether financial reporting meets users’ information needs, particularly, given the emergence of new users and the role of new technologies in the diffusion and processing of information. These concerns have accompanied claims of increasing complexity of financial accounting and the threat of information overload.

Keywords: Accounting engagement, activism, information production costs, information acquisitions costs; users’ information needs, information complexity, information overload

JEL Classification: G23, G32, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Garcia Osma, Beatriz and Grande-Herrera, Cristina, The Role of Users’ Engagement in Shaping Financial Reporting: Should Activists Target Accounting More? (March 23, 2021). Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3764063 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3764063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
326 References
D Acemoglu , T A Hassan , A Tahoun
The power of the street: evidence from Egypt's Arab Spring
Review of Financial Studies , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 42 Posted: 2018
Crossref
T Adams , T Neururer
Is future shareholder activism associated with current financial reporting quality? Evidence from the US. Working paper Posted: 2020-10
A K Agrawal
Corporate governance objectives of labor union shareholders: Evidence from proxy voting
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 187 - 226 Posted: 2012
Crossref
K R Ahern , D Sosyura
Who writes the news? Corporate press releases during merger negotiations
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 241 - 291 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
248
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,035
RANK
281,769
326 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies