Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
COVID-19 Disclosure: A Novel Measurement and Annual Report Uncertainty

Posted: 15 Jan 2021 Last revised: 19 Mar 2021

Mahmoud Elmarzouky

University of Westminster ; University of Portsmouth

Khaldoon Albitar

University of Glasgow

Atm Enayet Karim

University of Portsmouth

Ahmed Saber Moussa

Ministry of finance - Egypt

Date Written: September 1, 2020

Abstract

This paper provides a unique COVID-19 disclosure measurement and investigates the association between the level of COVID-19 disclosure and uncertainty. The results show there is a positive relationship between COVID-19 disclosure and uncertainty. Firms with larger boards exhibit more significant uncertainty with COVID-19 disclosure. However, with different board independence percentages, the significance of uncertainty with COVID-19 disclosure remains at the same level.

Suggested Citation:

Elmarzouky, Mahmoud and Elmarzouky, Mahmoud and Albitar, Khaldoon and Karim, Atm Enayet and Moussa, Ahmed, COVID-19 Disclosure: A Novel Measurement and Annual Report Uncertainty (September 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3764894
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
516
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies