Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
COVID-19 Governance Challenges: The Board’s Role in COVID-19 Crisis Management

Benson-Rea, M., Eraković, L., & Watson, S. M. 2021. Covid-19 governance challenges: The board’s role in Covid-19 crisis management, Chapter 9 in Management Perspec-tives on the Covid-19 Crisis: Lessons from New Zealand, Husted, K. & Sinkovics, R. R., (eds), Edward Elgar, Forthcoming.

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper

10 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2021

Maureen Benson-Rea

University of Auckland Business School

Ljiljana Erakovic

University of Auckland Business School

Susan Watson

University of Auckland Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute ; University of Auckland - Faculty of Law

Date Written: January 12, 2021

Abstract

This chapter explores the experiences of a group of New Zealand-based organizations from a range of industries and sectors in responding to the challenges wrought by COVID-19. Focusing on the board of directors, we relate the lived experiences of CEOs, board chairs and directors in handling the crisis. In a purposively sampled set of interviews, we explored their priorities and practical actions and strategies in addressing the crisis. The emerging themes highlight their immediate responses, their longer term plans and the key importance of relationships both internal to the organization and externally, to help boards and CEOs to manage the crisis. We conclude with the implications for other firms and organizations of the increasing recognition that taking care of the interests of key stakeholders may not just be the right thing to do but is also in the interests and to the benefit of the organization it-self. We suggest further research on developing our understanding of the role of boards and board members.

Keywords: Boards, directors, relationships, stakeholders, decision making

JEL Classification: M10, M14

Suggested Citation:

Benson-Rea, Maureen and Erakovic, Ljiljana and Watson, Susan Mary, COVID-19 Governance Challenges: The Board’s Role in COVID-19 Crisis Management (January 12, 2021). Benson-Rea, M., Eraković, L., & Watson, S. M. 2021. Covid-19 governance challenges: The board’s role in Covid-19 crisis management, Chapter 9 in Management Perspec-tives on the Covid-19 Crisis: Lessons from New Zealand, Husted, K. & Sinkovics, R. R., (eds), Edward Elgar, Forthcoming. , The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3765053 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3765053
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
C M Alpaslan , S E Green , I I Mitroff
Corporate governance in the context of crises: Towards a stakeholder theory of crisis management
Journal of Contingencies and Crisis Management , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 38 - 49 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Birshan , M Goerg , A Moore , E.-J Parekh
Investors remind business leaders: Governance matters Posted: 2020-10-09
Chapman Tripp
New Zealand corporate governance: Trends and insights Posted: 2019-04
S Chatterjee , J S Harrison
The Blackwell handbook of strategic management , p. 543 - 64 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,359
RANK
384,900
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies