Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Price Reactions to ESG News: The Role of ESG Ratings and Disagreement

Forthcoming, Review of Accounting Studies

44 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2021 Last revised: 30 Aug 2021

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Aaron Yoon

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

Date Written: January 13, 2021

Abstract

We investigate whether ESG ratings predict future ESG news and the associated market reactions. We find that the consensus rating predicts future news, but its predictive ability diminishes for firms with large disagreement between raters. Relation between news and market reaction is moderated by the consensus rating. In the presence of high disagreement between raters, the relation between news and market reactions weakens while the rating with most predictive power predicts future stock returns. Overall, while rating disagreement hinders the incorporation of value relevant ESG news into prices, ratings predict future news and proxy for market expectations of future news.

Keywords: ESG; ESG (environmental, social, governance) performance; ESG (environmental/social/governance) performance; ESG disclosure; ESG ratings; ESG reporting; ESG disclosure metrics; sustainability; Investments; news; disagreement; rating disagreement; ratings

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M4

Suggested Citation:

Serafeim, George and Yoon, Aaron, Stock Price Reactions to ESG News: The Role of ESG Ratings and Disagreement (January 13, 2021). Forthcoming, Review of Accounting Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3765217 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3765217
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
7,841
ABSTRACT VIEWS
20,520
RANK
1,918
159 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies