Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Audit Committee Effectiveness: Reviewing a Decade of Empirical Research

Forthcoming Comptabilité Contrôle Audit – Accounting Auditing Control

52 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Géraldine Broye

University of Strasbourg

Pauline Johannes

University of Strasbourg

Date Written: July 1, 2020

Abstract

The last decade has been rich in academic insights regarding the effectiveness of audit committees. Our paper offers a review of the related literature and discusses the main contributions and implications of recent empirical research. We analyse the major findings of 143 studies published from 2007 to 2018. This review is organised around four major issues, identified in relation to theoretical perspectives and methodological approaches. The determinants of audit committee effectiveness are complex, and researchers play a central role in developing our understanding of the multiple implications of audit committee composition, its governance and its interactions with various actors involved in the financial reporting process. Specifically, this work identifies emerging research directions and suggests opportunities for future research.

Keywords: Audit committee, Literature review, Corporate governance

JEL Classification: M41,M42

Suggested Citation:

Broye, Géraldine and Johannes, Pauline, Determinants of Audit Committee Effectiveness: Reviewing a Decade of Empirical Research (July 1, 2020). Forthcoming Comptabilité Contrôle Audit – Accounting Auditing Control, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3765482
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
145 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , D V Rama
Corporate governance, audit quality, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: evidence from internal audit outsourcing
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , issue 4 , p. 803 - 835 Posted: 2007
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Serving two masters: the association between audit committee internal oversight and internal audit activities
Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2010
Crossref
L J Abbott , V L Brown , J L Higgs
The effects of prior manager-auditor affiliation and PCAOB inspection reports on audit committee members' auditor recommendations
Behavioural Research in Accounting , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
388
ABSTRACT VIEWS
986
RANK
174,532
145 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies