Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Employment Law: The Basics

54 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2021 Last revised: 12 Nov 2023

Lawrence J. Trautman

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business; Texas A&M University School of Law (By Courtesy)

Judith Bohr

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business

Larry D. Foster, II

University of Houston - Downtown - College of Business; Prairie View A&M University - College of Business

Thomas Freeman

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Lora Koretz

W. P. Carey School of Business at Arizona State

Anthony McMullen

University of Central Arkansas

H. Justin Pace

Western Carolina University - College of Business

Lester C. Reams

Mount Saint Mary’s University, Los Angeles

David D Schein

University of Saint Thomas, Houston - Cameron School of Business

Robert Zinko

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business

Date Written: January 12, 2021

Abstract

Employment law issues impact all business enterprises in both for-profit and non-profit settings. Examples illustrating the enormous costs of violating or simply being accused of running afoul of employment laws abound. In addition, the cost to defend these lawsuits can quickly become very large and even result in the actual failure of small, thinly-capitalized enterprises. The purpose of this introduction to employment law is to provide anyone--- including entrepreneurs and busy students, with an overview of the source, foundation, basic and emerging issues surrounding this important topic. Our goal is to convey this primer in a format readable within 20 minutes of diligent effort. Ample additional resources are presented in our footnotes for those desiring a more robust discussion.

Keywords: affirmative action, age, benefits, Civil Rights Act of 1964 Title VII, COVID-19 pandemic, disability, discrimination, EEOC, employee, employment law, Fair Labor Standards Act, Family and Medical Leave Act, gender, human resources, Internet, LGBTQ, labor law, national origin, OSHA

Suggested Citation:

Trautman, Lawrence J. and Bohr, Judith and Foster, II, Larry D. and Freeman, Thomas and Koretz, Lora and McMullen, Anthony and Pace, H. Justin and Reams, Lester C and Schein, David D and Zinko, Robert, Employment Law: The Basics (January 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3765016 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3765016
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
Id
See also Sprague, supra note 1 at 67
Misclassification of Employees as Independent Contractors, U.S. DEP'T OF LABOR
Sprague
Restatement
Load more
1 Citations
Mohammed T. Hussein , Lawrence J. Trautman , Reginald Holloway
Technology Employment, Information and Communication in the Digital Age
103 Journal of the Patent and Trademark Office Society 101 (January 2023) · 30 Pages · Posted: 13 Jan 2021 · Last revised: 1 Mar 2023 · Downloads: 243
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,705
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,227
RANK
23,854
1 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies