Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do short-sale constraints inhibit information acquisition? Evidence from Regulation SHO

accepted to appear in Journal of Financial Markets

71 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2021 Last revised: 28 Mar 2023

Lixin (Nancy) Su

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Sonia Man-Lai Wong

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) - Department of Finance and Insurance

Yuan Xue

Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Xiaofeng Zhao

Lingnan University

Date Written: January 15, 2021

Abstract

We investigate how short-sale constraints influence investor information acquisition. Leveraging the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC’s) Regulation SHO pilot program, we find that relaxed short-sale constraints lead to increased public information acquisition by investors. Investors acquire and process valuable information and utilize it to improve their short-selling decisions after the relaxation of short-sale constraints. We obtain similar findings using a quasi-natural experiment in China that lifted short-sale bans, supporting the external validity of our results. Collectively, our evidence demonstrates that reduced trading frictions promote information acquisition and contribute to price discovery.

Keywords: Short-sale constraints, information acquisition, price efficiency, Regulation SHO

JEL Classification: G14, D83

Suggested Citation:

Su, Lixin (Nancy) and Wong, Sonia Man-Lai and Xue, Yuan and Zhao, Xiaofeng,
Do short-sale constraints inhibit information acquisition? Evidence from Regulation SHO
(January 15, 2021). accepted to appear in Journal of Financial Markets, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3766616 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3766616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
R Albuquerque , S Song , C Yao
The price effects of liquidity shocks: A study of the SEC's tick size experiment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 138 , issue 3 , p. 700 - 724 Posted: 2020
A Almazan , K C Brown , M Carlson , D A Chapman
Why constrain your mutual fund manager
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 73 , issue 2 , p. 289 - 321 Posted: 2004
A Ang , A A Shtauber , P C Tetlock
Asset pricing in the dark: The cross-section of OTC stocks
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 26 , issue 12 , p. 2985 - 3028 Posted: 2013
V R Anshuman , A Kalay
Market making with discrete prices
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 109 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,578
RANK
252,662
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies