Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Choices, Governance Structures, and Strategic Assets: A Transaction Cost Perspective.

Academy of Management Review, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Parthiban David

American University - Kogod School of Business

Ravi Dharwadkar

Syracuse University - Whitman School of Management

Augustine Duru

American University - Kogod School of Business

Date Written: January 17, 2021

Abstract

We integrate the governance and measurement branches in transaction cost economics to highlight how differences in performance measurement choices influence the governance of strategic assets, thereby affecting transaction costs. We develop our theory in the context of corporate governance in firms. Financiers of debt and equity employ market and hierarchical governance to safeguard generic and specific assets, respectively. Financial reporting choices constitute credible commitments to generate performance reports that are used by financiers in exercising governance. We explain why conservatism (more timely information about potential losses) bolsters the market governance of debt to reduce transaction costs for generic assets, while smoothing (informative reports about future earnings) strengthens the hierarchical governance of equity to reduce transaction costs for specific assets. We outline a research agenda incorporating the implications of performance measurement from financial reporting choices for the governance of strategic investments.

Keywords: financial reporting, transaction costs, corporate governance, transaction hazard, strategic investments, performance measurement, information asymmetry

Suggested Citation:

David, Parthiban and Dharwadkar, Ravi and Duru, Augustine, Financial Reporting Choices, Governance Structures, and Strategic Assets: A Transaction Cost Perspective. (January 17, 2021). Academy of Management Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3767912
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
141 References
D Acemoglu , M Kremer , A Mian
Incentives in markets, firms, and governments
Economics, and Organization , volume 24 , p. 273 - 306 Posted: 2008
Crossref
C Ahmadjian , J Oxley
Vertical relationships, hostages, and supplier performance: evidence from the Japanese automotive industry
Economics, and Organization , volume 29 , p. 485 - 512 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
975
RANK
271,899
141 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies