Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Affecting Share Price of Oil and Gas Company: The Case of Indonesia and India

Nelson Fernando, Rosinta Ria Panggabean. (2020). Factors Affecting Share Price of Oil and Gas Company: The Case of Indonesia and India. PalArch’s Journal of Archaeology of Egypt / Egyptology, 17(7), 2499–2514. https://www.archives.palarch.nl/index.php/jae/article/view/1565

16 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Nelson Fernando

Accounting Department, Faculty of Economics and Communication, Bina Nusantara University

Rosinta Ria Panggabean

Accounting Department, Faculty of Economics and Communication, Bina Nusantara University

Date Written: December 1, 2020

Abstract

The study aimed to analyze the influence of variables that affect the price of shares in the mining sub-sector of oil and gas that are listed in the Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) with the National Stock Exchange of India (NSE) in the period 2009-2015. These variables among which EPS, ROE, PER, DER, and Company Size. The study uses secondary data from the financial statements of the companies in the Stock Exchange and NSE. Test used is chow, Hausman and Lagrange with eviews program. Purposive sampling, samples consist of six sub-sector mining companies oil and gas on the Stock Exchange and 10 on the NSE. Partially, only PER ia significantly influence the share price on the Stock Exchange, while the other variables did not influence the stock price. While in the NSE is only EPS that influence stock prices, while the other variables did not influence the stock price.

Keywords: Mining company, EPS, ROE, PER, DER

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Fernando, Nelson and Panggabean, Rosinta Ria, Factors Affecting Share Price of Oil and Gas Company: The Case of Indonesia and India (December 1, 2020). Nelson Fernando, Rosinta Ria Panggabean. (2020). Factors Affecting Share Price of Oil and Gas Company: The Case of Indonesia and India. PalArch’s Journal of Archaeology of Egypt / Egyptology, 17(7), 2499–2514. https://www.archives.palarch.nl/index.php/jae/article/view/1565, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3767360
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
A Adi , Darminto , D Atmanto
Effect of return on equity, debt to equity ratio, earnings per share and book value share price in the consumer goods industry company is registered in the stock exchange for the period of
Jurnal Universitas Brawijaya Posted: 2008
M Arslan , R Zaman
Impact of dividend yield and price earnings ratio on stock returns: A study non-financial listed firms of Pakistan
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 5 , issue 19 , p. 2222 - 2847 Posted: 2014
E D Astutik , Surachman , A Djazuli
The effect of fundamental and technical variables on stock price (Study on manufacturing companies listed in Indonesia Stock Exchange)
Business, and Accountancy Ventura , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 345 - 352 Posted: 2014
Crossref
P Bhatt , S Jk
Impact of earnings per share on market value of an equity share: An empirical study in Indian Capital Market
Journal of Finance, Accounting and Management , volume 3 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
633
RANK
505,214
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies