Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Parent-Subsidiary Dispersion and Executive Excess Perks Consumption

Li, B., Yao, Y., Shahab, Y., Li, H. and Ntim, C.G. (2020). Parent-subsidiary dispersion and executive excess perks consumption. International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming.

43 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Bin Li

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) - School of International Trade and Economics

Yao Yao

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE); Research Institute of Economics and Management

Yasir Shahab

School of Accounting, Xijing University

Hai-Xia Li

Xijing University - School of Accounting

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Date Written: April 27, 2020

Abstract

We investigate the impact of parent-subsidiary dispersion on the corporate executives’ excess perks consumption using comprehensive data of 1,784 Chinese listed firms over the 2003–2017 period (i.e., total firm-year observations of 24,976). We argue that firms with greater geographic and institutional environment dispersion are subject to an acute information asymmetry problem, which makes it difficult and costly for shareholders and the public to monitor managerial actions and hence, facilitates managers to consume perks excessively. Consistent with this assertion, we find a positive relationship between parent-subsidiary company dispersion and executives’ excess perks consumption. These patterns are not likely to be driven by the firms’ endogenous choice and remain robust to various proxies for parent-subsidiary dispersion and executives’ excess perks consumption. In addition, our results also show that firms with a greater dispersion between parent and subsidiary companies have higher investor recognition. However, investor recognition does not appear to negatively impact the rate of executives’ excess perks consumption, which may explain why executives’ excess perks consumption is not mitigated in firms with greater parent-subsidiary dispersion.



Keywords: Parent-subsidiary dispersion; corporate executives; excess perks; information asymmetry; investor recognition

JEL Classification: G12; G14; G30; G32

Suggested Citation:

Li, Bin and Yao, Yao and Shahab, Yasir and Li, Hai-Xia and Ntim, Collins G., Parent-Subsidiary Dispersion and Executive Excess Perks Consumption (April 27, 2020). Li, B., Yao, Y., Shahab, Y., Li, H. and Ntim, C.G. (2020). Parent-subsidiary dispersion and executive excess perks consumption. International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3768182
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
D Garcia , O Norli
Geographic Dispersion and Stock Returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 106 , issue 3 , p. 547 - 565 Posted: 2012
Crossref
S J Grossman , J E Stiglitz
Information and competitive price systems
The American Economic Review , volume 66 , issue 2 , p. 246 - 253 Posted: 1976
S J Grossman , O D Hart
Takeover bids, the free-rider problem, and the theory of the corporation
The Bell Journal of Economics , volume 11 , p. 42 - 64 Posted: 1980
Crossref
F A Gul , L T W Cheng , T Y Leung
Perks and the informativeness of stock prices in the Chinese market
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 17 , issue 5 , p. 1410 - 1429 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
628
RANK
724,439
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies