Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance and Sustainability in Southeast Asia

Tran, M., Beddewela, E., and Ntim, C.G. (2020). ‘Governance and Sustainability in Southeast Asia’, Accounting Research Journal, Forthcoming.

Posted: 9 Mar 2021

Mi Tran

University of Huddersfield - Business School

Eshani Beddewela

Independent

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Date Written: October 19, 2020

Abstract

Purpose – This paper aims to examine the relationship between a diverse set of corporate governance (CG) mechanisms and corporate sustainability disclosures (CSD) in Southeast Asian countries under national stakeholder reform.

Design/ methodology/ approach – Data analysis is based on 171 of the largest companies across six Southeast Asian countries using a 30-item CSD measure.

Findings - The authors find that there are wide variations in the levels of CSD across the countries. The findings indicate that board size, board gender diversity, block ownership and the presence of a sustainability committee are significant determinants of CSD. Additionally, while more stringent stakeholder governance reform motivates firms to publish more sustainability information, it fails to influence the effectiveness of board of directors in promoting CSD.

Practical implications – Findings of this study highlight the essential role internal governance structure plays in monitoring corporate actions and enabling corporations to reduce their legitimacy gap. The findings further encourage regulators and policy makers to question, with utmost importance, the effectiveness of stakeholder reform in making significant organisational changes.

Originality/ value – There is a dearth of studies that examine the CG-CSD nexus in relation to specific institutional characteristics. Existing studies mainly focus on a single country with similar institutional environments, and thus limiting the ability to understand ‘context specificity’ of sustainability content development. This paper provides an overview of stakeholder reform in Southeast Asian countries and empirically substantiates the relationship between CG and CSD across six countries undergoing such reforms in the region.

Keywords: Southeast Asia; corporate sustainability disclosure (CSD); content analysis; stakeholder reform; corporate governance; sustainable development.


Keywords: Southeast Asia; corporate sustainability disclosure (CSD); content analysis; stakeholder reform; corporate governance; sustainable development.

JEL Classification: G3; G34; G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Tran, Mi and Beddewela, Eshani and Ntim, Collins G., Governance and Sustainability in Southeast Asia (October 19, 2020). Tran, M., Beddewela, E., and Ntim, C.G. (2020). ‘Governance and Sustainability in Southeast Asia’, Accounting Research Journal, Forthcoming. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3768172
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
541
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies