Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Human Resource Disclosures in UK Corporate Annual Reports: To What Extent Do These Reflect Organizational Priorities Towards Labor?

Vithana, K., Soobaroyen, T., and Ntim, C.G. (2019). ‘Human Resource Disclosures in Corporate Annual Reports: The Case of UK FTSE 100 Firms’, Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming.

41 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2021

Krishanthi Vithana

University of Southampton

Teerooven Soobaroyen

University of Essex - Essex Business School

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Date Written: September 16, 2019

Abstract

Our study analyses the nature, quality and extent of human resource disclosures (HRDs) of UK Financial Times Stock Exchange (FTSE) 100 firms by relying on a novel disclosure index measuring the depth and breadth of disclosures. Contextually, we focus on the five-year period following the then Labor government’s attempts to encourage firms to formally report on their human resource management practices and to foster deeper employer-employee engagement. First, we evaluate the degree to which companies report comprehensively (or substantively) on a number of HRD items that we classify as “procedural” or “sustainable.” Second, we hypothesize that a company’s employee relation ideology (using a proxy to measure a company’s level of “unitarism”) is positively associated with HRD. Our results indicate that: (i) whilst there has been an increase in the breadth of HRD in terms of procedural and sustainable items being disclosed, the evolution towards a more comprehensive and in-depth form of HRD remains rather limited; and (ii) there is a positive association between a company’s employee relation ideology (unitarism) and the level of HRD. Theoretically, we conceive of HRD both as a reflection of an organization’s orientation towards a key stakeholder (unitarist relations with labor) and a legitimacy seeking exercise at a time of changing societal conditions. We contribute to the scant literature on the extent and determinants of HRD since prior research tends to subsume employee-related disclosures within the broader concept of social, ethical or intellectual capital disclosures. We also propose a disclosure checklist to underpin future HRD research.

Keywords: Human Resource Disclosure, Employee Relation Ideology, Stakeholder Theory, Legitimacy Theory

JEL Classification: G3; G34; G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Vithana, Krishanthi and Soobaroyen, Teerooven and Ntim, Collins G., Human Resource Disclosures in UK Corporate Annual Reports: To What Extent Do These Reflect Organizational Priorities Towards Labor? (September 16, 2019). Vithana, K., Soobaroyen, T., and Ntim, C.G. (2019). ‘Human Resource Disclosures in Corporate Annual Reports: The Case of UK FTSE 100 Firms’, Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3768165 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3768165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
Aaa
Report of the committee on human resource accounting. The Accounting Review , p. 169 - 185 Posted: 1973
I Abeysekera
The Influence of Board Size on Intellectual Capital Disclosure by Kenyan Listed Firms
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 504 - 518 Posted: 2010
Crossref
I Abeysekera
Motivations behind human capital disclosure in annual reports
Accounting Forum , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 16 - 29 Posted: 2008
Crossref
I Abeysekera , Guthrie , J
Human capital reporting in a developing nation
The British Accounting Review , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 251 - 268 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
742
RANK
772,295
2 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies