Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance Structures and the Compensation of Powerful Corporate Leaders in Financial Firms during M&As

Agyei-Boapeah, H., Ntim, C.G., and Fosu, S. (2019). ‘Governance Structures and the Compensation of Powerful Corporate Leaders in Financial Firms during M&As’, Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming.

50 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2021

Henry Agyei-Boapeah

University of York - The York Management School

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Samuel Fosu

University of Sussex; affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 10, 2019

Abstract

We examine the impact of mergers and acquisitions (M&As) on the compensation of powerful corporate leaders (i.e., boards of directors including CEOs, CFOs, and Board Chair) of acquiring firms. Using one of the largest datasets on M&As, directors’ compensation and governance to-date, consisting of a sample of UK financials (banks, insurance firms, private equity firms, and speciality finance firms) over a 13-year period, our results obtained by employing multivariate regression analyses show that acquisitions, on average, have a positive and significant impact on directors’ compensation, relating to both powerful corporate executives (CEOs, CFOs and all other executive directors) and non-executives (chairpersons and other non-executive directors). However, the positive acquisition effect on top executive compensation is much higher in large and complex acquisitions than in other deals. We also find that much of the acquisition-related pay rises is equity-based rather than cash-based. Finally, we find CEOs to be the top beneficiaries from acquisitions. Collectively, we interpret our findings within a multi-theoretical framework that draws insights from agency, executive power, managerial talent and tournament theories of top executive compensation.

Keywords: M&As; Powerful Corporate Leaders, Executive compensation; Corporate governance; Financial firms; UK

JEL Classification: G3; G34; G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Agyei-Boapeah, Henry and Ntim, Collins G. and Fosu, Samuel and Fosu, Samuel, Governance Structures and the Compensation of Powerful Corporate Leaders in Financial Firms during M&As (June 10, 2019). Agyei-Boapeah, H., Ntim, C.G., and Fosu, S. (2019). ‘Governance Structures and the Compensation of Powerful Corporate Leaders in Financial Firms during M&As’, Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3768204
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
Abdul Wahab , N S Ntim , C G Adnan , M M M Tye , W L
Top management team heterogeneity, governance changes and book-tax differences
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 32 , p. 30 - 46 Posted: 2018
H Agyei-Boapeah
Cross-border acquisitions and financial leverage of UK acquirers
Accounting Forum , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 97 - 108 Posted: 2015
Crossref
H Agyei-Boapeah , S Fosu , C G Ntim
Corporate multinationality and acquirer gains Posted: 2019
Crossref
Y Amihud , B Lev
Risk Reduction as a Managerial Motive for Conglomerate Mergers
The Bell Journal of Economics , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 605 - 617 Posted: 1981
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
467
RANK
765,896
1 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies