Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Vice-Chancellor Characteristics and Internal Governance Mechanisms on Voluntary Disclosures in UK Higher Education Institutions

1. Elmagrhi, M.H., Ntim, C.G., Wang, Y., Elamer, A.A., and Crossley, R.M. (2021).‘The Effect of Vice-Chancellor Characteristics and Internal Governance Mechanisms on Voluntary Disclosures in UK Higher Education Institutions’, Journal of International Accouting, Auditing and Taxation, [In Press].

57 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Mohamed Elmagrhi

University of Huddersfield, Huddersfield Business School, Queensgate, Huddersfield, HD1 3DH; Swansea University, School of Management; University of Huddersfield - Business School

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Yan Wang

Nottingham Business School

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Richard Crossely

University of Huddersfield, Business School, Students

Date Written: January 17, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the extent to which UK higher education institutions (HEIs) voluntarily make governance disclosures, and investigates whether vice-chancellor characteristics and governing board mechanisms influence such voluntary governance disclosures. Using a sample of 117 UK HEIs over a 6-year period (i.e., 702 university-year observations), we find that the level of governance disclosures among HEIs in the UK is generally low, which is consistent with the findings of prior studies that examined general disclosure practices among HEIs. We also find that vice-chancellor characteristics and governing board mechanisms have significant impact on voluntary governance disclosures. Specifically, we find positive and significant association among vice-chancellor tenure, governing board independence, governing board meetings, the presence of a governance committee and voluntary governance disclosures. By contrast, we find that vice-chancellor age and governing board ethnic/gender diversity have negative association with the governance disclosures, whereas vice-chancellor gender, and education background have no association with the governance disclosures.

Keywords: Governance quality, Voluntary disclosure, Reforms, UK higher education institutions (HEIs)

JEL Classification: M41, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Elmagrhi, Mohamed and Elmagrhi, Mohamed and Ntim, Collins G. and Wang, Yan and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Crossely, Richard, The Effect of Vice-Chancellor Characteristics and Internal Governance Mechanisms on Voluntary Disclosures in UK Higher Education Institutions (January 17, 2021). 1. Elmagrhi, M.H., Ntim, C.G., Wang, Y., Elamer, A.A., and Crossley, R.M. (2021).‘The Effect of Vice-Chancellor Characteristics and Internal Governance Mechanisms on Voluntary Disclosures in UK Higher Education Institutions’, Journal of International Accouting, Auditing and Taxation, [In Press]., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3768031
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
M Adhikariparajul , A Hassan , M Fletcher , A A Elamer
Integrated reporting in UK higher education institutions. Sustainability Accounting
Management and Policy Journal , volume 10 , issue 5 , p. 844 - 876 Posted: 2019
Crossref
R V Aguilera , D E Rupp , C A Williams , J Ganapathi
Putting the S back in corporate social responsibility: A multilevel theory of social change in organizations
Academy of Management Review , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 836 - 863 Posted: 2007
Crossref
T Ahrens , R Khalifa
The impact of regulation on management control: Compliance as a strategic response to institutional logics of university accreditation
Qualitative Research in Accounting and Management , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 106 - 126 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Allegrini , G Greco
Corporate boards, audit committees and voluntary disclosure: Evidence from Italian listed companies
Journal of Management and Governance , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 187 - 216 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
644
RANK
697,608
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies