Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Power and Stock Price Crash Risk in China: Do Female Directors’ Critical Mass and Ownership Structure Matter?

Shahab, Y., Ntim, C.G., Ullah, F., Yugang, C., & Ye, Z. (2020). CEO power and stock price crash risk in China: Do female directors’ critical mass and ownership structure matter? International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming.

57 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 19 Feb 2021

Yasir Shahab

School of Accounting, Xijing University

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Farid Ullah

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) - School of International Trade and Economics

Yugang Chen

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) - School of Business

Zhiwei Ye

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE)

Date Written: January 20, 2020

Abstract

This study investigates how CEO power is associated with stock price crash risk. We further examine the moderating roles of female directors’ critical mass and ownership structure on the relationship between CEO power and stock price crash risk. Employing one of the largest datasets to-date of Chinese listed firms over the 2005-2015 period (13,421 firm-year observations), we find that CEO’s power to increase the likelihood of stock price crash risk is significantly mitigated when the percentage of: (a) female directors; and (b) ownership by blockholders and institutions, is high within firms. We interpret our findings within a theoretical framework that draws insights from neo-institutional, managerial power and critical mass theories. The findings are robust to the use of alternative measures, estimation methods and endogeneity issues.

Keywords: CEO power; stock price crash risk; female director critical mass; ownership structure; managerial power theory; China

JEL Classification: G3; G34; G38

Suggested Citation:

Shahab, Yasir and Ntim, Collins G. and Ullah, Farid and Chen, Yugang and Ye, Zhiwei, CEO Power and Stock Price Crash Risk in China: Do Female Directors’ Critical Mass and Ownership Structure Matter? (January 20, 2020). Shahab, Y., Ntim, C.G., Ullah, F., Yugang, C., & Ye, Z. (2020). CEO power and stock price crash risk in China: Do female directors’ critical mass and ownership structure matter? International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3768159
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
J L Callen , X Fang
Institutional investor stability and crash risk: Monitoring versus short-termism?
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 37 , issue 8 , p. 3047 - 3063 Posted: 2013
Crossref
J Chen , M Ezzamel , Z Cai
Managerial power theory, tournament theory, and executive pay in China
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 1176 - 1199 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S Chen , A Y Lee-Chai , J A Bargh
Relationship orientation as a moderator of the effects of social power
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 80 , issue 2 Posted: 2001
Crossref
C Choe , G Y Tian , X Yin
CEO power and the structure of CEO pay
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 35 , p. 237 - 248 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,027
RANK
337,747
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies