Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Director Appointments

56 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

George Drymiotes

Texas Christian University

Shiva Sivaramakrishnan

Rice University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 14, 2021

Abstract

Recent corporate governance scandals have been attributed to a lack of board independence due to the influence CEOs have over their boards. However, CEOs can also affect board efficacy without compromising its independence by strategically choosing directors. We offer a theoretical framework to examine how CEOs can strategically choose director characteristics (such as expertise and skill set) to influence the inner workings of the board. We examine how director expertise affects the board's equilibrium voting strategies and show that some "passivity" on the part of directors can in fact be desirable equilibrium behavior. More importantly, we show that managers can strategically appoint independent outside directors to influence board voting in their favor. Surprisingly, contrary to what we might expect, we find that opportunistic (principled) managers may not always appoint the least (most) able directors to the board. We also examine whether CEOs would prefer a "captured" board (i.e., an insider-dominated board) and show that the value of director input (i.e., the board's advising role) and the financial markets can discourage CEOs from pursuing such appointments.

Keywords: Board of directors, corporate governance, majority voting, rubberstamping, deferring, abstaining, director appointments

JEL Classification: D80, G34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Drymiotes, George and Sivaramakrishnan, Shiva, Strategic Director Appointments (January 14, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3769659 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3769659
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Austen-Smith , D Banks , J S
Information aggregation, rationality, and the Condorcet jury theorem
American Political Science Review , volume 90 , p. 34 - 45 Posted: 1996
S Bainbridge
Director primacy and shareholder disempowerment
Harvard Law Review , volume 119 , p. 5 - 25 Posted: 2006
M S Beasley , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , T L Neal
The audit committee oversight process
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , p. 65 - 122 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
811
RANK
418,259
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies