Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Information, Corporate Governance and Debt Covenants: Egyptian Evidence

35 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2021

Osama Magdy

Alexandria University

Kamal Eldahrawey

Alexandria University

Mohamed Abdelghany

Alexandria University

Date Written: January 20, 2021

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to develop a new model for the effect of accounting information and corporate governance mechanisms on public and private debt covenants of firms listed on the Egyptian stock exchange.

Design/methodology/approach – The paper uses the multiple regression model. This model includes three main variables of accounting information: change in net cash flows from operating activities, change in earnings before extraordinary items, and accounting disclosure levels. In addition, the model incorporates ten corporate governance mechanisms. The sample used in the current study consists of 66 observations of Egyptian firms that issued bonds or were granted bank loans in the period from 2003 through 2013.

Findings – The paper concludes that the new model is useful in explaining the changes in the design of debt covenants. It finds that there is a significant negative relationship between accounting information and corporate governance mechanism on one side and price terms in the private debt contracts on the other side. There is a significant negative relationship between accounting information and corporate governance mechanism on one side and the non-price terms in the private debt contracts on the other side. There is a significant negative relationship between accounting information and corporate governance mechanism on one side and the price and non-price terms in private debt contracts on the other side.

Practical implications – The findings have implications for lenders (banks and bondholders); through helping them in making credit decisions, as they rely on accounting information and corporate governance mechanisms when designing debt covenants that are imposed on public and private debt contracts.

Originality/value – To the best of the authors’ knowledge, there are no Egyptian studies to date examining the effect of accounting information and corporate governance mechanisms on public and private debt covenants of firms listed on the Egyptian stock exchange. Consequently, this paper contributes to the limited literature by suggesting a new model for the effect of accounting information and corporate governance mechanisms on public and private debt covenants. Furthermore, this paper develops a new measure for non-price terms in debt contracts by creating a new index containing 109 terms of public and private debt covenants.


Keywords: Debt Covenants; Private Debt Contracts; Public Debt Contracts; Corporate Governance Mechanisms, Accounting Information

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Magdy, Osama and Eldahrawey, Kamal and Abdelghany, Mohamed, Accounting Information, Corporate Governance and Debt Covenants: Egyptian Evidence (January 20, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3770318 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3770318
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
565
RANK
556,453
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies