Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Ownership Structure and Intragroup Loans on Leverage: Evidence From Family Firms in Chile

Mauricio Jara, Cristian Pinto-Gutiérrez & Paula Núñez (2018) The Effects of Ownership Structure and Intragroup Loans on Leverage: Evidence From Family Firms in Chile, Emerging Markets Finance and Trade, 54:11, 2614-2629, DOI: 10.1080/1540496X.2017.1369401

Posted: 11 Mar 2021

Christian A. Pinto-Gutierrez

University of Talca, Chile

Mauricio Jara-Bertin

University of Chile - Business School

Date Written: June 29, 2018

Abstract

This article examines the effects of family control and pyramidal ownership on firms’ capital structure decisions. After studying a sample of listed family and nonfamily firms in Chile, we find that families take a conservative approach to debt and financial risk exposure. We test the hypothesis that family firms restrict the use of debt in order to avoid the monitoring role of creditors, which could limit their enjoyment of the private benefits of control. In keeping with this hypothesis, we find a U-shaped relationship between leverage and the degree of pyramidal ownership that is more pronounced among family firms than nonfamily firms. We do not find any evidence that is consistent with the hypothesis that family-controlled firms have low leverage ratios due to their access to internal capital markets. In fact, conversely, we find that listed family firms provide more loans to related companies than comparable nonfamily firms.

Keywords: business groups, capital structure, family firms, internal capital markets, ownership structure, pyramidal structure

Suggested Citation:

Pinto-Gutierrez, Christian A. and Jara-Bertin, Mauricio Alejandro, The Effects of Ownership Structure and Intragroup Loans on Leverage: Evidence From Family Firms in Chile (June 29, 2018). Mauricio Jara, Cristian Pinto-Gutiérrez & Paula Núñez (2018) The Effects of Ownership Structure and Intragroup Loans on Leverage: Evidence From Family Firms in Chile, Emerging Markets Finance and Trade, 54:11, 2614-2629, DOI: 10.1080/1540496X.2017.1369401, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3771912
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
298
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies