Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Not by Contract Alone: The Contractarian Theory of the Corporation and the Paradox of Implied Terms

European Business Organization Law Review, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2021

David Gibbs

University of East Anglia (UEA)

David Gindis

University of Warwick - Warwick Law School

Derek Whayman

University of Reading - School of Law

Date Written: January 22, 2021

Abstract

Contractarians view the corporation as a nexus of contracts, constituted by the express or implied consent of each party to or contracting with it. Strong form contractarianism takes this claim literally and holds that a corporation can be created and sustained by contract alone, thanks notably to the courts’ supportive gap-filling role. We argue that this view is undermined by the way courts actually treat implied terms. While courts do attempt to fill gaps and hold parties to their bargains, courts do not typically manufacture counterfactual consent by resorting to the hypothetical bargain logic of contractarianism. Even under the most flexible form of contract law, the common law contract, the capacity of courts to imply third-party obligations in multi-party contracts is highly limited. This makes the contractarian reliance on contract and the courts to construct the complex set of multi-party obligations that make up the corporate form implausible.

Keywords: Corporation, Contractarianism, Contract Law, Implied Terms

JEL Classification: K12, K15, K22

Suggested Citation:

Gibbs, David and Gindis, David and Whayman, Derek, Not by Contract Alone: The Contractarian Theory of the Corporation and the Paradox of Implied Terms (January 22, 2021). European Business Organization Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3771451 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3771451
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
A A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, Information Costs, and Economic Organization
Am Econ Rev , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
Crossref
L Anderlini , L Felli , Postlewaite
Should Courts Always Enforce What Contracting Parties Write?
Rev L and Econ , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 28 Posted: 2011
Crossref
G N Anderson , R D Tollinson
The Myth of the Corporation as a Creation of the State
Int Rev L and Econ , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 107 - 120 Posted: 1983
Crossref
P Atiyah
The Rise and Fall of Freedom of Contract Posted: 1979
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
389
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,974
RANK
174,026
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Contracts & Commercial Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies