Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determining Factors of Thin Capitalization Practices in Indonesia

Proceeding Book of The 2nd International Conference on Business and Banking Innovations (ICOBBI) 2020

16 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Diah Hari Suryaningrum

Universitas Pembangunan Nasional Veteran Jawa Timur

Jepri Safrudin

Universitas Pembangunan Nasional Veteran Jawa Timur

Date Written: August 15, 2020

Abstract

This study aims to obtain empirical evidence of the influence of multi-nationality, tax haven utilization, tax uncertainty, executive character, institutional Ownership, independent commissioners, audit committees, and audit quality on thin capitalization. The population in this study is multinational companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) for the period 2016-2018. Sample selection using purposive sampling and obtained a sample of 63 companies. Data analysis techniques are multiple linear regression. The results showed that multi-nationality, utilization of tax havens, tax uncertainty, independent commissioners, and audit quality influenced thin capitalization. Meanwhile, the executive character, institutional Ownership, and audit committee do not affect thin capitalization. The implication is to tighten the supervision of corporate debt by the Government and maximize the implementation of good corporate governance by companies to prevent the practice of thin capitalization.

Keywords: Multi-nationality, Utilization of Tax, Haven, Tax Uncertainty, Good Corporate Governance, Thin Capitalization

JEL Classification: M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Suryaningrum, Diah Hari and Safrudin, Jepri Duwi, Determining Factors of Thin Capitalization Practices in Indonesia (August 15, 2020). Proceeding Book of The 2nd International Conference on Business and Banking Innovations (ICOBBI) 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3772027
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
K Amin , N A Suyono
Pengaruh Corporate Governance Terhadap Tax Avoidance
Journal of Economic, Business, and Engineering , issue 2 Posted: 2020
P N Ardianti
Profitabilitas, Leverage, dan Komite Audit Pada Tax Avoidance. E-Jurnal Akuntansi Universitas Udayana , volume 26 , p. 2020 - 2040 Posted: 2019
P W Arianandini , I Ramantha
Pengaruh Profitabilitas, Leverage, dan Kepemilikan Institusional Pada Tax Avoidance. E-Jurnal Akuntansi Universitas Udayana , volume 22 , p. 2088 - 2116 Posted: 2018
Crossref
I A Ariawan , P E Setiawan
Pengaruh Dewan Komisaris Independen, Kepemilikan Institusional, Profitabilitas dan Leverge Terhadap Tax Avoidance. E-Jurnal Akuntansi Universitas Udayana , volume 18 , p. 1831 - 1859 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
603
RANK
446,506
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies