Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing the Workload of the Proxy Season

42 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2021 Last revised: 29 Nov 2022

Paul Calluzzo

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Simi Kedia

Rutgers Business School

Date Written: September 27, 2022

Abstract

About 52% of all shareholder meetings happen in the proxy season, a short period that lasts from the fourth week of April until the end of May. This concentration leads to an increased workload for ISS, the largest proxy advisor, during which time they must make recommendations on an average of 333 proposals each day, compared to 27 proposals outside it. We find that ISS makes fewer negative recommendations in this busy period and that they are of lower quality. The evidence is consistent with ISS managing its workload by both increasing the threshold that triggers further investigation of proposals and reducing the time its analysts spend on each proposal. These findings suggest that regulatory initiatives aimed at requiring greater transparency of the proxy recommendation process may increase the workload of proxy advisors and may exacerbate problems associated with lower quality recommendations during the busy proxy season.

Keywords: Proxy Advisors, ISS, Proxy Season, Proxy Voting

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Calluzzo, Paul and Kedia, Simi, Managing the Workload of the Proxy Season (September 27, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3773931 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3773931
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
R Aggarwal , S Dahiya , N Prabhala
The power of shareholder votes: Evidence from uncontested director elections
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2019
R Aggarwal , I Erel , L Starks , C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Influence of Public Opinion on Investor Voting and Proxy Advisors , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
A M Albuquerque , S Carter , C R Gallani , M A Chen , D J Seppi , C S Spatt
Are ISS Recommendations Informative? Evidence from Assessments of Compensation Practices, Working Paper Alexander
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 12 , p. 4419 - 4454 Posted: 2010
R Ashraf , N Jayaraman , H E Ryan
Do pension-related business ties influence mutual fund proxy voting? Evidence from shareholder proposals on executive compensation
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
236
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,411
RANK
296,056
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies