Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Media Ownership on News Coverage

Forthcoming Management Science

48 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2021 Last revised: 17 Sep 2025

Simi Kedia

Rutgers Business School

Gunchang Kim

Institute of Financial Studies, Southwestern University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: January 25, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines whether ownership by media conglomerates impacts business news reporting. To address this question, we take advantage of a unique setting when in 2007 the ownership of the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) was transferred to News Corp., a media conglomerate with broad business interests. We find that after the acquisition, the WSJ's sentiment towards competitors of News Corp. became significantly negative in comparison to similar reporting conducted by the New York Times. Further, WSJ’s reporting influences stock prices and is associated with more profitable insider trading. This evidence suggests that ownership by media conglomerates likely influences the nature of business news coverage.

Keywords: Media Ownership, Competitors, WSJ coverage, Media Bias, News Coverage

Suggested Citation:

Kedia, Simi and Kim, Gunchang, Impact of Media Ownership on News Coverage (January 25, 2021). Forthcoming Management Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3773240 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3773240
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
K R Ahern , D Sosyura
Who writes the news? Corporate press releases during merger negotiations
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 241 - 291 Posted: 2014
S Ahn , D Denis
Internal capital markets and investment policy: Evidence from corporate spin-offs
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2004
K Auletta
Murdoch's best friend
New Yorker Posted: 2011-04-04
M Baum , Y Zhukov
Media ownership and news coverage of international conflict Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,097
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,899
RANK
45,873
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies