Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR): Focus on Tax Avoidance and Financial Ratio Analysis

Accountancy Business and the Public Interest 2021

17 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2021 Last revised: 26 Mar 2021

Jahidur Md Rahman

Wenzhou-Kean University

LI Leqi

Wenzhou-Kean University

Date Written: January 26, 2021

Abstract

This study aims to discover the relationship between financial ratios and tax avoidance in firms participating in corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities. Using a sample of 365 Chinese listed firms in the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges, we find that engaging in CSR activities discourages tax avoidance behaviors, especially in companies that actively participate in CSR activities. Concerning financial ratios, we also find that firms with higher profitability, higher cash flow, and higher sales growth are more likely to participate in tax avoidance. In contrast, firms with high liquidity are less likely to engage in tax avoidance. Based on the results of this study, tax authorities can predict whether a Chinese company will engage in tax avoidance activities in future by referring to its financial ratios. Moreover, tax authorities can use CSR activities to encourage companies to pay tax

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR); Book-Tax Differences (BTD); Tax Avoidance (TS)

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Jahidur Md and Leqi, LI, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR): Focus on Tax Avoidance and Financial Ratio Analysis (January 26, 2021). Accountancy Business and the Public Interest 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3773360
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
N W Chamberlain
The limits of corporate responsibility Posted: 1973
C F Chen , D Tsai
How destination image and evaluative factors affect behavioral intentions? Tourism management , volume 28 , p. 1115 - 1122 Posted: 2007
Crossref
S Chen , X Chen , Q Cheng , T Shevlin
Are family firms more tax aggressive than non-family firms?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 95 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C Deegan , M Rankin , J Tobin
An examination of the corporate social and environmental disclosures of BHP from 1983-1997: A test of legitimacy theory
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 312 - 343 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
636
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,175
RANK
95,735
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies