Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Co-Movement and Governance Bundles: Does the Quality of National Governance Moderate This Relationship?

Posted: 15 Mar 2021

Ambrose Ambrose

Brunel University London

Suman Lodh

Kingston University London

Monomita Nandy

Brunel University London

Date Written: January 18, 2021

Abstract

In this study we examine if corporate governance, as a bundle, can better explain stock co- movement. To test the implication of governance bundles on stock co-movement, we consider a monitoring and incentive alignment bundle. Using 2659 firm–year observations from 321 firms listed on the S&P 500 from 2009-2017, we find that the governance mechanism bundle can enhance the ability of stock prices to integrate better firm-specific information, which reflects on stock co-movement. In addition, we find the existence of a complementary relationship between National Governance Quality and a firm’s board monitoring. This also helps in explaining the puzzle of stock co-movement. The findings will extend the understanding about the co-movement related literature mentioned in the corporate governance and corporate finance research. The findings are also helpful for decision makers and policy makers involved in the efficient controlling of stock co-movement.


Keywords: Stock co-movement; Board Monitoring; Incentive Alignment; Governance Bundle; National Governance Quality

Suggested Citation:

Egwuonwu, Ambrose and Lodh, Suman and Nandy, Monomita, Stock Co-Movement and Governance Bundles: Does the Quality of National Governance Moderate This Relationship? (January 18, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3774881
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
276
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies