Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence on Internal Audit Quality from Transitioning to Remote Audits because of COVID-19

38 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2021 Last revised: 31 May 2022

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Martin Wagener

University of Duisburg-Essen

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 16, 2022

Abstract

As in-person audits were banned by governments and by company policies due to the COVID-19 pandemic, internal auditors had to transition to remote audits to perform their work. Based on survey responses of internal auditors who have conducted both remote and in-person audits, we find that internal auditors perceive no difference in the efficiency and effectiveness of and stakeholders’ reliance on results from remote and in-person audits when considering all responses. However, we also find that perceived efficiency and effectiveness increase the more experience internal auditors have with remote audits. Supplemental analyses show that support from the auditee, but not management or the audit committee, is a central determinant of perceived remote audit success. It is important for internal auditors to consider this later finding in the design of remote audits as it indicates the importance of building support with the auditee to have a successful remote auditing experience.

Keywords: Remote Audit, Internal Auditing, COVID-19

JEL Classification: M40, M42, G3, G34

Suggested Citation:

Eulerich, Marc and Wagener, Martin and Wood, David A., Evidence on Internal Audit Quality from Transitioning to Remote Audits because of COVID-19 (May 16, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3774050 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3774050
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
G D Bartlett , J Kremin , K K Saunders , D A Wood
Attracting applicants for inhouse and outsourced internal audit positions: Views from external auditors
Accounting Horizons , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 143 - 156 Posted: 2016
G D Bartlett , J Kremin , K K Saunders , D A Wood
Factors influencing recruitment of non-accounting business professionals into internal auditing
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 119 - 130 Posted: 2017
A A Bennett , E D Campion , K R Keeler , S K Keener
Videoconference fatigue? Exploring changes in fatigue after videoconference meetings during COVID-19
Journal of Applied Psychology , volume 106 , issue 3 , p. 330 - 344 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,167
RANK
8,741
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies