Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credit Refinancing and Corporate Tax Avoidance

46 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2021 Last revised: 23 Apr 2021

Anna Alexander

University of Padua

Magdalena Pisa

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: April 23, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the disciplining effects of credit markets on corporate tax avoidance strategies. We show that, during adverse credit market conditions, firms with refinancing needs prefer to forgo the after-tax cash flow benefits of tax avoidance to regain the access to the traditionally risk-averse credit markets. Our results show that firms increase their cash effective tax rate by 2 percentage points when facing refinancing constraints. This effect is more pronounced for firms with lower asset tangibility and higher default probability. Moreover, we show that firms engage in less tax deferral strategies, while leaving their leverage and debt shield unchanged. Overall, these findings are consistent with credit markets putting pressure on tax avoiding firms and contribute to the policy debate on disciplining tax avoiders.

Keywords: Credit refinancing, refinancing constraints, tax avoidance, credit market discipline

JEL Classification: G32, H25, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Alexander, Anna and Pisa, Magdalena, Credit Refinancing and Corporate Tax Avoidance (April 23, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3774085 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3774085
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
H Almeida , M Campello
Financial Constraints, Asset Tangibility, and Corporate Investment
Rev. Financ. Stud , volume 20 , issue 5 , p. 1429 - 1460 Posted: 2007
Crossref
H Almeida , M Campello , B Laranjeira , S Weisbenner
Corporate Debt Maturity and the Real Effects of the
Credit Crisis. Crit. Finance Rev , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 58 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Crossref
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
J. Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,140
RANK
403,165
1 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies