Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A critique of the agency theory viewpoint of stock price crash risk: The opacity and overinvestment channels

British Journal of Management

59 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2021 Last revised: 21 Jan 2023

Panayiotis C. Andreou

Cyprus University of Technology

Neophytos Lambertides

Cyprus University of Technology

Marina Magidou

University of Central Lancashire - Cyprus; Cyprus University of Technology

Date Written: January 27, 2021

Abstract

This study documents a puzzling historical trend in crash risk for US-listed firms: between 1950 and 2019, the firm-year occurrences of idiosyncratic stock price crashes rose from 5.5% to an astonishing 27%. The vastness of the literature notoriously attributes crashes to agency reasons, i.e., self-interested executives who strategically camouflage bad news via the financial reporting opacity and overinvestment channels. Nonetheless, we document that the opacity- and overinvestment-crash relations are nonsignificant, especially in the period following the enforcement of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act. The statistically nonsignificant relations are also witnessed in tests that account for the effect of equity-based compensation incentives and corporate governance functions. Overall, this study criticizes the efficacy of opacity and overinvestment as channels in explaining crash risk. Our conclusions offer avenues for future research to pursue in rationalizing the puzzling surge in stock price crashes.

Keywords: stock price crashes, crash risk, bad news hoarding, agency theory, opacity, overinvestment, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G12, G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Andreou, Panayiotis C. and Lambertides, Neophytos and Magidou, Marina, A critique of the agency theory viewpoint of stock price crash risk: The opacity and overinvestment channels (January 27, 2021). British Journal of Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3774424 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3774424
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
V Adams , M Murphy , A E Clarke
Anticipation: Technoscience, life, affect, temporality
Subjectivity , volume 28 , p. 246 - 265 Posted: 2009
G A Akerlof , R J Shiller
Animal spirits: How human psychology drives the economy, and why it matters for global capitalism Posted: 2010
H An , T Zhang
Stock price synchronicity, crash risk, and institutional investors
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 21 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2013
C K Andreou , P C Andreou , N Lambertides
Financial distress risk and stock price crashes
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 67 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
400
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,986
RANK
168,604
4 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies