Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Number of Numbers: Does a Greater Proportion of Quantitative Textual Disclosure Reduce Information Risk?

64 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2021 Last revised: 16 May 2025

John L. Campbell

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Xin Zheng

University of British Columbia, Sauder School of Business, Students

Dexin Zhou

City University of New York, Baruch College - Zicklin School of Business - Department of Economics and Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 19, 2021

Abstract

This study investigates the association between quantitative disclosure and information risk, hypothesizing that a greater proportion of numerical information in earnings conference calls decreases information risk and thus increases firm value. We find that, even after controlling for earnings information, more extensive numerical disclosure correlates positively with earnings announcement returns. This effect concentrates in firms with poorer information environments and during periods of heightened performance uncertainty. Finally, we show that a greater proportion of numerical disclosure reduces implied volatility, bid-ask spread, and implied cost of capital. Our findings highlight numerical disclosure's role in reducing information risk and emphasize its importance in financial disclosures.

Keywords: Textual Analysis, Quantitative Disclosure, Numerical Information, Earnings Conference Calls, Voluntary Disclosure G14, G12, M41, G10

JEL Classification: G14, G12, M41, G10

Suggested Citation:

Campbell, John L. and Zheng, Xin and Zhou, Dexin, Number of Numbers: Does a Greater Proportion of Quantitative Textual Disclosure Reduce Information Risk? (August 19, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3775905 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3775905
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
K D Allee , M D Deangelis
The structure of voluntary disclosure narratives: Evidence from tone dispersion
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 274 Posted: 2015
S P Baginski , J L Campbell , L A Hinson , D Koo
Do career concerns affect the delay of bad news disclosure?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 61 - 95 Posted: 2018
J Bertomeu , I Marinovic
A theory of hard and soft information
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2016
A Beyer , D A Cohen , T Z Lys , B R Walther
The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
826
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,229
RANK
59,542
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies