Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Benefits from Corporate Social Responsibility? Reciprocity in the Presence of Social Incentives and Self-Selection

IZA Discussion Paper No. 14067

37 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2021 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Guglielmo Briscese

University of Chicago

Nick Feltovich

Monash University

Robert Slonim

The University of Sydney

Abstract

Firms can donate a share of profits to charity as a form of corporate social responsibility (CSR). Recent experiments have found that such initiatives can induce higher effort by workers, generating benefits for both sides of the labour market. We design a novel version of the gift-exchange game to account for self-selection, and find that wages remain the most effective incentive to attract and motivate workers, with corporate donations playing a smaller role than previously suggested. We also show that firms substitute donations to charity with lower wage offers, keeping their profits constant but reducing workers' earnings. Initiatives of corporate philanthropy can thus be marginally beneficial for firms, but considerably costly for workers.

Keywords: gift exchange, reciprocity, corporate philanthropy, self-selection

JEL Classification: D64, C91, M52

Suggested Citation:

Briscese, Guglielmo and Feltovich, Nick and Slonim, Robert, Who Benefits from Corporate Social Responsibility? Reciprocity in the Presence of Social Incentives and Self-Selection. IZA Discussion Paper No. 14067, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3775972
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
J Andreoni , J M Rao , H Trachtman
Avoiding the ask: A field experiment on altruism, empathy, and charitable giving
Journal of Political Economy , volume 125 , issue 3 , p. 625 - 653 Posted: 2017
Crossref
M Bertrand , M Bombardini , R Fisman , B Hackinen , F Trebbi
Hall of mirrors: Corporate philanthropy and strategic advocacy Posted: 2018
Crossref
V C Burbano
Social responsibility messages and worker wage requirements: Field experimental evidence from online labor marketplaces
Organization Science , volume 27 , issue 4 , p. 1010 - 1028 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J Carpenter , E Gong
Motivating agents: How much does the mission matter
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 211 - 236 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
689
RANK
560,264
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies