Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The check is in the mail: Can disclosure reduce late payments to suppliers?

Management Science, Accepted

54 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2021 Last revised: 12 Mar 2025

Elizabeth Chuk

University of California, Irvine

Ben Lourie

University of California, Irvine

Il Sun Yoo

University of Hawaii at Manoa - Shidler College of Business

Date Written: March 03, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether buyers reduce their late payments in response to a regulatory change in the United Kingdom that mandates the public disclosure of their payment practices. We find that UK buyers subject to this regulation reduce their late payments. In cross-sectional tests, we find that this reduction in late payments is more pronounced for buyers with a greater extent of late payments, buyers facing a more concentrated supplier base, and buyer-supplier relationships in which a supplier is more important to a buyer than other suppliers. In additional tests, we document evidence consistent with increases in contracting costs for late payers after the disclosure of late payments. Specifically, we find that late-paying buyers experience (i) a loss of suppliers and (ii) a negative stock market reaction. Finally, for buyers subject to the regulation, we document a decrease in operating cash flows, increase in debt, decrease in investment, and decrease in future profitability. Our findings that the disclosure of late payments contains decision-useful information can inform standard-setters, as the FASB and IASB recently mandated new disclosures related to trade credit but omitted mandates for disclosures related to late payments.

Keywords: mandatory disclosure, late payments, trade credit, supply chain

JEL Classification: G23, L14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chuk, Elizabeth and Lourie, Ben and Yoo, Il Sun, The check is in the mail: Can disclosure reduce late payments to suppliers? (March 03, 2025). Management Science, Accepted, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3775656 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3775656
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
M Bailey , S Glaeser , J D Omartian , A Raghunandan
Misreporting of mandatory ESG disclosures: Evidence from gender pay gap information Posted: 2022
Barclays
Three in five UK businesses are owed money from late payments, fueling stress and cash flow problems Posted: 2022
J.-N Barrot
Trade credit and industry dynamics: evidence from trucking firms
Journal of Finance , volume 71 , p. 1975 - 2016 Posted: 2016
J.-N Barrot , R Nanda
The employment effects of faster payment: Evidence from the federal Quickpay reform
Journal of Finance , volume 75 , p. 3139 - 3173 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
489
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,260
RANK
133,220
2 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies