Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recruiting Dark Personalities for Earnings Management

68 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Ling L. Harris

University of Nebraska at Lincoln

Scott B. Jackson

University of South Carolina

Joel Owens

Portland State University

Nicholas Seybert

University of Maryland - Department of Accounting & Information Assurance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 28, 2021

Abstract

Prior research indicates that managers’ dark personality traits increase their tendency to engage in disruptive and unethical organizational behaviors including accounting earnings management. Other research suggests that the prevalence of dark personalities in management may represent an accidental byproduct of selecting managers with accompanying desirable attributes that fit the stereotype of a “strong leader.” Our paper posits that organizations may hire some managers who have dark personality traits because their willingness to push ethical boundaries aligns with organizational objectives, particularly in the accounting context where ethical considerations are especially important. Using several validation studies and experiments, we find that experienced executives and recruiting professionals favor hiring a candidate with dark personality traits into an accounting management position over an otherwise better-qualified candidate when the hiring organization faces pressure to manage earnings. Our results help to illuminate why individuals with dark personality traits may effectively compete for high-level accounting positions.

Keywords: ethics, earnings management, employee selection, recruiting, hiring, accounting, management, job candidates, narcissism, dark triad, personality traits, experiment

JEL Classification: M10, M12, G30, M14, M40, M41, M50, M51

Suggested Citation:

Harris, Ling and Jackson, Scott B. and Owens, Joel and Seybert, Nicholas, Recruiting Dark Personalities for Earnings Management (January 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3775120 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3775120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
109 References
Which candidate's attitude is most compatible with the culture of the Company (Foundation)? 2. Which candidate's value system is most compatible with the culture of the Company (Foundation)?
Which candidate's belief system is most compatible with the culture of the Company (Foundation)?
Which candidate's personality is most compatible with the culture of the Company (Foundation)?
Which candidate has priorities that are most similar to the priorities of the Company (Foundation)? 6. Which candidate is most likely to clash with the culture of the Company (Foundation)? 7. Which candidate's behaviors, beliefs, and values will be valued most by the Company (Foundation)?
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,401
RANK
282,907
7 Citations
109 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies