Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Concierge Treatment from Banks: Evidence from the Paycheck Protection Program

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2021 Last revised: 4 Nov 2021

Ran Duchin

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Xiumin Martin

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin School of Business

Roni Michaely

The University of Hong Kong; ECGI

Hanmeng Ivy Wang

Washington University in Saint Louis, John M. Olin Business School, Students

Date Written: October 28, 2021

Abstract

We use loans that were extended to public firms through the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) as a laboratory to separate between favoritism and informational advantages in interpersonal ties between banks and firms. Because PPP loans are guaranteed by the government and banks do not need to carefully screen borrowers, this setting reduces information frictions, allowing us to quantify the effect of favoritism. We find that firms with personal ties to banks are more likely to obtain PPP loans. The role of personal ties weakens when firms are less opaque, but does not vary with banks’ corporate governance. We also find that connected firms are more likely to return their loans to avoid regulatory scrutiny. Overall, we offer clean estimates of the role of favoritism in bank lending and highlight the unintended consequence of government programs that use the banking system to allocate capital.

Keywords: COVID-19, credit, Paycheck Protection Program (PPP), agency theory, favoritism, relationship lending

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Duchin, Ran and Martin, Xiumin and Michaely, Roni and Wang, Hanmeng, Concierge Treatment from Banks: Evidence from the Paycheck Protection Program (October 28, 2021). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3775276 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3775276
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
V V Acharya , P Schnabl , G Suarez
Securitization without risk transfer
Journal of Financial economics , volume 107 , issue 3 , p. 515 - 536 Posted: 2013
D Amiram , D Rabetti
The Relevance of Relationship Lending in Times of Crisis
SSRN 3701587 Posted: 2020
C O Arteta , M Carey , R Correa , J D Kotter
Revenge of the Steamroller: ABCP as a Window on Risk Choices. Frb international finance discussion paper Posted: 1076
D Autor , D Cho , L D Crane , M Goldar , B Lutz , J Montes , W B Peterman , D Ratner , D Villar , A Yildirmaz
An evaluation of the paycheck protection program using administrative payroll microdata
MIT Working Paper Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
337
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,613
RANK
204,108
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies