Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Labor Cost Stickiness and Managerial Decisions on Human Capital Adjustment

Journal of Accounting Literature, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 17 Oct 2023

Dongmin Kong

School of Economics, Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Shasha Liu

School of Management, Jinan University

Rui Shen

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen - School of Management and Economics; Shenzhen Finance Institute

Date Written: January 29, 2021

Abstract

On the basis of labor economics theories, we posit that adjustment in human capital accounts for a significant part of cost stickiness. Using the education level of employees as a measure of the quality of human capital, we find that labor cost changes driven by the adjustment of employee education level are sticky. This stickiness cannot be explained by the standard adjustment cost theory and is more salient during industry expansion. We further show that firms that actively adjust their employee quality during downturns experience improved future performance. Our findings are robust to alternative measures and specifications. Overall, this study extends the economic theory of sticky costs by showing that human capital adjustment drives cost stickiness. Moreover, such adjustments have long-term implications on the firm’s performance.

Keywords: Sticky cost, Human capital, Labor cost, Employee education level, Firm performance

JEL Classification: M40, J30, M51

Suggested Citation:

Kong, Dongmin and Liu, Shasha and Shen, Rui, Labor Cost Stickiness and Managerial Decisions on Human Capital Adjustment (January 29, 2021). Journal of Accounting Literature, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3775380 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3775380
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
534
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,674
RANK
119,702
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies