Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Performance Disclosures in the CD&A

60 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 2 Mar 2023

Heidi A. Packard

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Accounting

Andrea Pawliczek

University of Colorado at Boulder

A. Nicole Skinner

University of Colorado at Boulder

Date Written: March 1, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines voluntary disclosure in the context of shareholder scrutiny of executive compensation contracts. We find that firms voluntarily increase discussion of their performance within their CD&A disclosures when peer-benchmarked compensation relative to performance is high. In contrast, we do not find a similar increase in performance discussion in the corresponding MD&A disclosures, which suggests that the effect is not driven by firms’ general disclosure practices. We also find that the relation between relatively high compensation and CD&A performance disclosure strengthens following the implementation of mandatory Say-on-Pay, which increased costs associated with investor criticism of pay. These disclosures appear to be used effectively to avoid negative compensation assessments, in that they are associated with higher levels of shareholder and proxy advisor approval. Altogether, our findings suggest that CD&A performance disclosures allow firms to communicate the context of their compensation choices to improve shareholder opinions of pay.

Keywords: Proxy statement disclosure, CD&A disclosure, shareholder scrutiny, voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: D22, J33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Packard, Heidi A. and Pawliczek, Andrea and Skinner, Ashley Nicole, Voluntary Performance Disclosures in the CD&A (March 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3776925 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3776925
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
J S Abarbanell , W N Lanen , R E Verrecchia
Analysts' forecasts as proxies for investor beliefs in empirical research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 60 Posted: 1995
A Agrawal , R A Walkling
Executive careers and compensation surrounding takeover bids
The Journal of Finance , volume 49 , issue 3 , p. 985 - 1014 Posted: 1994
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
G Akerlof
The market for lemons: Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
514
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,486
RANK
125,376
2 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies