Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do firms Use Non-GAAP Earnings to Mask their Poor Performance and Get Away with it?

49 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2021 Last revised: 8 Jun 2022

Seunghan Nam

New York Institute of Technology

Date Written: June 22, 2021

Abstract

While research generally agrees on the informativeness of non-GAAP disclosure, evidence on managers' opportunistic non-GAAP reporting has been accumulated as well. Regulators and the press continue their worries about discretionary non-GAAP reporting and its implication on capital markets, even after SEC's several interventions. We explore how the markets price managers' opportunistic non-GAAP reporting and find that aggressive non-GAAP reporting of firms in the negative tail of GAAP earnings surprises and firms that fail to meet GAAP analysts forecast is rewarded in the capital market. Our result illustrates that the market may draw a thin line between non-GAAP's informativeness and opportunism.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Nam, Seunghan, Do firms Use Non-GAAP Earnings to Mask their Poor Performance and Get Away with it? (June 22, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3776532 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3776532
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
J S Abarbanell , R Lehavy
Letting the "Tail Wag the Dog": The Debate over GAAP versus Street Earnings Revisited
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 675 - 723 Posted: 2007
S Asper , C Mccoy , G K Taylor
The Expanding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Posted: 2019
M E Barth , I D Gow , D J Taylor
Why do pro forma and Street earnings not reflect changes in GAAP? Evidence from SFAS 123R
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 526 - 562 Posted: 2012
E Bartov , D Givoly , C Hayn
The rewards to meeting or beating earnings expectations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
820
RANK
407,330
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies