Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blockchain and Earnings Management

Posted: 9 Mar 2021

Malek El Diri

University of York; University of Leeds

Date Written: January 1, 2020

Abstract

Blockchain is a decentralized open database which enhances transactions’ auditability and thus potentially affects financial reporting through its role in mitigating information asymmetry. Using a sample of 116 companies that have engaged with blockchain technology up to date, this study examines the impact of blockchain on earnings management. We find that the introduction of blockchain technology is associated with more earnings management, which can be attributed to (i) inherent inefficiencies of blockchain that render it unable to authenticate certain type of business transactions (ii) the financial technology illiteracy of most stakeholders and (iii) the potential reduction in profits due to the high costs of early-stage implementation. More specifically, blockchain enhances accrual but not real earnings management which shows that firms investing in blockchain do not want to jeopardise their long-term growth potential. The results contribute to increasing blockchain users’ awareness of its costs and benefits in financial reporting.

Suggested Citation:

El Diri, Malek, Blockchain and Earnings Management (January 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3776225
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
842
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies