Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review of Corporate Social Responsibility and Reputational Costs in the Tax Avoidance Literature

94 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 30 Jul 2021

Kimberly S. Krieg

University of San Diego - Department of Accountancy

John Li

Ryerson University

Date Written: July 4, 2021

Abstract

In recent years, academic researchers, policymakers, and the public have increasingly focused on the tax avoidance behavior of corporations. At the same time, firms are increasingly pressured to incorporate corporate social responsibility (CSR) into their decision making, leading to heightened academic interest in CSR. Given that opponents of corporate tax avoidance often argue that avoiding tax is socially irresponsible, we review the growing literature surrounding this issue. We begin with a theoretical review of how corporate tax avoidance fits into the CSR framework. We then review the empirical evidence on the interrelationship between CSR and firm reputation in the tax avoidance literature. We frame our review around three questions: (1) do firms view tax avoidance as a CSR issue? (2) do stakeholders view tax avoidance as socially irresponsible, leading to reputational costs of tax avoidance? and (3) do firms change their tax avoidance behavior due to fear of these reputational consequences? Throughout our review, we provide discussions on the state of the current literature and offer suggestions for future research opportunities.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, corporate tax avoidance, tax aggressiveness, corporate culture, reputational costs

JEL Classification: H25, H32, M14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Krieg, Kimberly S. and Li, John, A Review of Corporate Social Responsibility and Reputational Costs in the Tax Avoidance Literature (July 4, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3776441 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3776441
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
150 References
Abdul Wahab , N S , K Holland
Tax planning, corporate governance and firm value
British Accounting Review , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 124 Posted: 2012
T Abdelfattah , A Aboud
2020. Tax avoidance, corporate governance, and corporate social responsibility: The case of the Egyptian capital market
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 38 , p. 1 - 16
Crossref
A Allen , B B Francis , Q Wu , Y Zhao
Analyst coverage and corporate tax aggressiveness
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 73 , p. 84 - 98 Posted: 2016
Crossref
P Antonetti , M Anesa
Consumer reactions to corporate tax strategies. The role of political ideology
Journal of Business Research , volume 74 , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
818
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,472
RANK
68,948
7 Citations
150 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies