Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Investigation of U.K. Environmental Targets Disclosure: The Role of Environmental Governance and Performance

Forthcoming, European Accounting Review

46 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2021

Tantawy Moussa

University of Westminster; Cairo University

Amr Kotb

Zayed University

Akrum Helfaya

Keele University, Keele Management School; Damanhour University, Egypt

Date Written: March 19, 2019

Abstract

While there is an increasing number of companies publicly declare environmental targets, very little is known about this area. This paper, therefore, investigates the historical timeline of companies’ environmental targets disclosures (ETDs) and empirically examines whether firms’ environmental governance mechanisms and environmental performance influence ETDs by UK companies over the 2005 – 2013 period. We find that firms show a large degree of variability and inconsistency in their reporting of environmental targets. The results also indicate that most companies, particularly environmentally-sensitive firms, are likely to disclose more soft qualitative targets as a symbolic act to manage the perceptions of their stakeholders and legitimise their existence. Additionally, this study documents a positive relation between the existence of a sustainability committee, use of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), sustainability assurance and the extent of ETDs. The results also show that firms with good environmental performance are likely to set and disclose quantitative and hard environmental targets. These results lend support to the stakeholder and legitimacy theories. We suggest that there is a real need for prescribed regulation, which will not only enhance the usefulness of ETDs but also encourages companies to take serious proactive action towards reducing their negative environmental impacts, possibly creating a ‘win-win’ solution. Our findings have important implications for public policy-makers and various stakeholder groups.

Keywords: Environmental targets, Environmental governance, Environmental performance, Sustainability reporting, Stakeholders, UK

Suggested Citation:

Moussa, Tantawy and Kotb, Amr and Helfaya, Akrum, An Empirical Investigation of U.K. Environmental Targets Disclosure: The Role of Environmental Governance and Performance (March 19, 2019). Forthcoming, European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3777344 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3777344
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
V Beattie
Accounting narratives and the narrative turn in accounting research: issues, theory, methodology, methods and a research framework
The British Accounting Review , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 134 Posted: 2014
Crossref
V Beattie , B Mcinnes , S Fearnley
A methodology for analysing and evaluating narratives in annual reports: A comprehensive descriptive profileand metrics for disclosure quality attributes
Accounting Forum , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 205 - 236 Posted: 2004
Crossref
U Beck
World risk society Posted: 1999
M K Bednar , S Boivie , N R Prince
Burr under the saddle: How media coverage influences strategic change
Organization Science , volume 24 , p. 910 - 925 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
918
RANK
560,264
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies