Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Informed Voting

Review of Financial Studies, forthcoming

80 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 27 May 2025

Meng Gao

University of Connecticut - Department of Finance

Jiekun Huang

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: March 20, 2024

Abstract

Information production by shareholders is essential for proxy voting to produce efficient outcomes. We propose a stock return-based measure to capture informed voting. Our measure, the vote alpha, quantifies the extent to which a shareholder votes in the direction that the market perceives as value increasing. Using data on mutual funds' proxy voting records, we find that the vote alpha exhibits persistence. Our main result shows that the voting pattern of high vote alpha funds positively predicts long-run abnormal stock returns following contentious votes, suggesting that these funds possess information about the shareholder value implication of contentious governance proposals.

Keywords: Information production, proxy voting, stock returns, mutual funds, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G34, G23, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Meng and Huang, Jiekun, Informed Voting (March 20, 2024). Review of Financial Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3777316 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3777316
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
A Admati , P P ‡eiderer
Wall Street Walk" and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 2245 - 2485 Posted: 2009
R Aggarwal , S Dahiya , N R Prabhala
The power of shareholder votes: Evidence from uncontested director elections
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , p. 134 - 153 Posted: 2019
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series e¤ects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
648
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,457
RANK
93,476
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies