Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The New Three Lines Model for Structuring Corporate Governance – A Critical Discussion of Similarities and Differences

21 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2021

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Date Written: February 1, 2021

Abstract

The efficient and effective organization and coordination of corporate governance activities is still one of the major challenges of modern corporate management. For many years, it was precisely the so-called Three Lines of Defense model that was used to structure governance functions. However, as more and more open points of discussion regarding practical implementation have emerged over the past years, the Three-Lines model was published in 2020 as a fundamental update by the Institute of Internal Auditors. This article critically presents the new model and discusses the similarities and differences to the existing model. Thus, this article contributes to the current discussion of best practices in corporate governance structure and the fundamental issues of an efficient and effective oversight. Both, practitioners and researchers should benefit from the critical discussion.

Keywords: Corporate Governance Structure, Three Lines of Defense, Internal Auditing, Risk Management Internal Controls, Compliance

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Eulerich, Marc, The New Three Lines Model for Structuring Corporate Governance – A Critical Discussion of Similarities and Differences (February 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3777392 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3777392
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal Audit Quality and Financial Reporting Quality: The Joint Importance of Independence and Competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Serving two masters: The association between audit committee internal audit oversight and internal audit activities
Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2010
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit assistance and external audit timeliness
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2012
Crossref
U L Anderson , M H Christ , K M Johnstone , L E Rittenberg
A post-SOX examination of factors associated with the size of internal audit functions
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 191 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,082
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,905
RANK
46,820
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies