Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Environmental Social Governance (ESG) – Disclosure of European Banks

European Banking Institute Working Paper Series 2021 - no. 83

247 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2021

Edgar Loew

Frankfurt School of Finance and Management gGmbH

Giulia Erichsen

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management

Benjamin Liang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Margret Louise Postulka

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management

Date Written: February 3, 2021

Abstract

In the European Union the goal of transition towards a carbon-neutral economy by 2050 is identified as a major aim of the European Commission. The integral role of the financial services sector in funding such investments and enhancing the (re-) direction and allocation of capital flows towards sustainable projects and investments is increasingly acknowledged. Besides the integration of ESG and CSR into the banks’ operations, it can serve and be utilized as risk management tools.

This paper investigates the effectiveness of the EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive (2014/95/EU) with respect to the CSR disclosure quality in European banks from 2017-2019. After an overview of the EU’s path towards a sustainable financial sector from 2013 till present, the most important regulations will be assessed in detail, namely the Non-Financial Reporting Directive (2014/95/EU) and the Taxonomy Regulation on Sustainable Economic Activity (2020/852/EU). By constructing a multi-category CSR disclosure index to “translate” and quantify disclosed CSR information in the banks’ annual filings, a positive comparative development over the years is identified – indicating the general effectiveness of the directive. The construction of the disclosure index and the content analysis of the banks’ CSR disclosures is based on textual analysis.

In order to not only analyse and evaluate the level of CSR disclosure in European banks from 2017-2019, but also to identify potential factors influencing its quality, the collection of multiple data inputs is necessary. The paper examines the association between three factors of the balance sheet and the P&L on their significance on the disclosure score. These factors are asset size in million euro (proxy for size), common equity tier 1 ratio (proxy for market discipline) as defined in the Basel III regulatory framework (proxy for market discipline) and pre-tax return on assets (proxy for profitability). Furthermore, the association of other non-balance sheet factors and their correlation on the disclosure score is examined which are listing status (listed or non-listed), country of the head-quarter, (external) auditor and bank´s CSR report type. Therefore, this adds detail to research, as existing majorly focus on how CSR-related information is disclosed and not to what extent and quality.

This paper targets accountants, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, shareholders, investors and stakeholders in general who are affected by and interested in the overall CSR disclosure quality of European banks.

Keywords: Bank Accounting, Banks, Corporate Social Responsibility, Sustainable Finance, Disclosure, Accounting, Auditing

JEL Classification: G15, G18, G21, G28, K22, K23, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Loew, Edgar and Erichsen, Giulia and Liang, Benjamin and Postulka, Margret Louise, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Environmental Social Governance (ESG) – Disclosure of European Banks (February 3, 2021). European Banking Institute Working Paper Series 2021 - no. 83, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3778674 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3778674
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
710 References
D Arli , P Van Esch , G Northey , M S Lee , R Dimitriu
Hypocrisy, skepticism, and reputation: the mediating role of corporate social responsibility Posted: 2019
Marketing Intelligence & Planning , volume 37 , issue 6 , p. 706 - 720
Crossref
J S Armstrong , K C Green
Effects of corporate social responsibility and irresponsibility policies
Journal of Business Research , volume 66 , p. 1922 - 1927 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S Arvidsson
Communication of Corporate Social Responsibility
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 96 , p. 339 - 354 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,820
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,590
RANK
21,572
710 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies