Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Flexibility in a Time of Crisis

79 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2021 Last revised: 15 Mar 2022

John W. Barry

Rice University

Murillo Campello

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

John R. Graham

Duke University; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Yueran Ma

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: March 14, 2022

Abstract

We use the COVID shock to study the direct and interactive effects of several forms of corporate flexibility on short- and long-term real business plans. We find that i) workplace flexibility, namely the ability for employees to work remotely, plays a central role in determining firms’ employment plans during the health crisis; ii) investment flexibility allows firms to increase or decrease capital spending based on their business prospects in the crisis, with effects shaped by workplace flexibility; and iii) financial flexibility contributes to stronger employment and investment, in particular when fixed costs are high. While the role of workplace flexibility is new to the COVID crisis, CFOs expect lasting effects for years to come: high workplace flexibility firms foresee continuation of remote work, stronger employment recovery, and shifting away from traditional capital investment, whereas low workplace flexibility firms rely more on automation to replace labor.

Keywords: corporate planning; corporate flexibility; corporate decision-making; COVID-19; automation; work from home; remote work; pandemic; crisis; investment; employment

JEL Classification: G01, G30, G32, D22, D23, E22, M12, O16

Suggested Citation:

Barry, John W. and Campello, Murillo and Graham, John Robert and Ma, Yueran, Corporate Flexibility in a Time of Crisis (March 14, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3778789 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3778789
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
K G Abraham , J C Haltiwanger , K Sandusky , J R Spletzer
Measuring the gig economy: current knowledge and open issues Posted: 2018
D Acemoglu , V Chernozhukov , I Werning , M D Whinston
Optimal targeted lockdowns in a multigroup sir model
American Economic Review: Insights , volume 3 , p. 487 - 502 Posted: 2021
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Robots and jobs: evidence from US labor markets
Journal of Political Economy , volume 128 , p. 2188 - 2244 Posted: 2020
V V Acharya , H Almeida , Y Amihud , P Liu
Efficiency or resiliency? Corporate choice between financial and operational hedging Posted: 2021
Load more
2 Citations
Charles Haward Soper
Contractant behaviour in the pandemic: A real-world survey
Journal of Strategic Contracting and Negotiation , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 87 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Jack Y Favilukis , Xiaoji Lin , Ali Sharifkhani , Xiaofei Zhao
Labor Force Telework Flexibility and Asset Prices: Evidence from the COVID-19 Pandemic
Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 3693239 · 73 Pages · Posted: 20 Sep 2020 · Last revised: 7 May 2021 · Downloads: 894
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
616
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,226
RANK
87,651
2 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies