Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
No-Fly Zone in the Loan Office: How CEOs’ Risky Hobbies Affect Credit Stakeholders’ Evaluation of Firms

Forthcoming at Organization Science

Posted: 9 Mar 2021

Bo Ouyang

Pennsylvania State University Great Valley

Yi Tang

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Chong Wang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Jian Zhou

University of Hawaii at Manoa

Date Written: February 5, 2021

Abstract

The extant research has often examined the work-related experiences of corporate executives, but their off-the-job activities could be just as insightful. This study employs a novel proxy for CEOs’ risky hobbies—CEOs’ hobby of piloting a private aircraft—and investigates its effect on credit stakeholders’ evaluation of the firms led by the CEOs as reflected in bank loan contracting. Using a longitudinal dataset on CEOs of large U.S. listed firms across multiple industries between 1993 and 2010, we obtain strong evidence that bank loans to firms steered by CEOs who fly private jets as a hobby tend to incur a higher cost of debt, to be secured, to have more covenants, and to be syndicated. These effects are mainly driven by banks which perceive such firms as having a higher default risk. These relationships become stronger when the CEO is more important to the firm and/or can exercise stronger control over decision-making. Supplemented by field interviews, our results are also robust to various endogeneity checks using different experimental designs, the Heckman two-stage model, a propensity score matching approach, a difference-in-differences test, and the impact threshold of confounding variables.

Keywords: Pilot CEO; Risky hobby; Off-the-job activities; Stakeholder theory; Upper echelons theory

JEL Classification: G30, M41, K22

Suggested Citation:

Ouyang, Bo and Tang, Yi and Wang, Chong and Zhou, Jian, No-Fly Zone in the Loan Office: How CEOs’ Risky Hobbies Affect Credit Stakeholders’ Evaluation of Firms (February 5, 2021). Forthcoming at Organization Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3779668
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
874
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies