Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Segment Profit/Loss and the Limitations of a “Management Approach”

Management Science, Forthcoming.

https://doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2023.01224

Posted: 16 Feb 2021 Last revised: 20 Dec 2024

Michael T. Durney

University of Iowa

Kurt H. Gee

The Ohio State University

Zac Wiebe

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Sam M. Walton College of Business

Date Written: April 23, 2024

Abstract

GAAP’s “Management Approach” to segment reporting (ASC 280) requires firms to report segment profit/loss as the measure managers use when allocating resources internally across segments under the assumption that investors benefit from viewing segment performance through the eyes of management. We examine how segment performance measurement aligns with the way that investors use segment profit/loss measures externally. We first survey professional investors and find that they primarily use segment profit/loss to assess firm value and therefore desire measures focused on persistent income items that help predict future performance. Next, for a sample of public multi-segment firms from 2003 to 2018, we hand-collect details on the construction of firms’ segment profit/loss measures and compare them to the same firms’ valuation-focused measures (i.e., non-GAAP earnings and non-GAAP segment profit/loss). Relative to non-GAAP measures, ASC 280 segment profit/loss is significantly more likely to include less persistent items (e.g., restructuring charges) and exclude more persistent items (e.g., interest expense). ASC 280 segment profit/loss is also less predictive of future performance and less value relevant than non-GAAP measures. These differences are attributable to ASC 280 yielding segment profit/loss measures that focus on the controllability of items by segment managers instead of items’ persistence. Overall, ASC 280’s segment profit/loss exhibits misalignment between its internal use by managers (i.e., internal resource allocation) and its primary external use by investors (i.e., valuation), which limits its usefulness for investors. Our study informs market participants and standard setters considering the usefulness of segment disclosures.

Keywords: Non-GAAP financial measures, segments, FASB, standard setting, Management Approach, value relevance, stewardship

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Durney, Michael Thomas and Gee, Kurt H. and Wiebe, Zac, Segment Profit/Loss and the Limitations of a “Management Approach” (April 23, 2024). Management Science, Forthcoming.
https://doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2023.01224
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3779977 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3779977
 Not Available for Download
51 References
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Measuring Value Relevance in a (Possibly) Inefficient Market
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 965 - 986 Posted: 2002
R D Banker , R Huang , R Natarajan
Incentive Contracting and Value Relevance of Earnings and Cash Flows
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 647 - 678 Posted: 2009
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The relevance of the value relevance literature for financial accounting standard setting: another view
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , issue 1-3 , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
M E Barth , G Clinch
Scale Effects in Capital Markets-Based Accounting Research
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 36 , issue 3-4 , p. 253 - 288 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,281
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies