Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Cybersecurity Risk Factor Disclosure Informative? Evidence from Disclosures Following a Data Breach

Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming

62 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 22 Feb 2022

Jing Chen

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business

Elaine Henry

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business

Xi Jiang

Stevens Institute of Technology

Date Written: February 20, 2022

Abstract

By examining managers’ decisions about disclosing updated assessments of firms’ risks, we present evidence that the risk factor disclosures are informative. We use the setting of cybersecurity risk factor disclosures after a data breach because data breaches, especially severe breaches, serve as a natural experiment where an exogenous shock to managers’ assessment of their firm’s cybersecurity risks occurs. We analyze the topic from the perspective of two different theoretical lenses: the economic lens of optimal risk exposure and the ethical lens of stakeholder theory. Using a sample of firms experiencing data breaches, we find that firms experiencing a data breach increase the amount of cybersecurity risk factor disclosures compared to matched firms with no data breach. Further investigation reveals that the severity of data breaches affects the results; cybersecurity risk factor disclosures increase only after severe data breaches. While there is no significant market reaction if breached firms’ subsequent annual reports include increased cybersecurity risk factor disclosures, a significant negative market reaction occurs if breached firms decrease cybersecurity risk factor disclosures, regardless of the severity of the breach, implying that the market anticipates increased disclosures after data breaches.

Keywords: Cybersecurity risk factor disclosures, cyber business ethics, data breach

JEL Classification: G14, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Jing and Henry, Elaine and Jiang, Xi, Is Cybersecurity Risk Factor Disclosure Informative? Evidence from Disclosures Following a Data Breach (February 20, 2022). Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3780388 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3780388
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
E Amir , S Levi , T Livne
Do firms underreport information on cyber-attacks? Evidence from capital markets
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 1177 - 1206 Posted: 2018
M Armental
Marriott takes $126 million charge related to data breach
Wall Street Journal Posted: 2019-08-05
Audit Analytics
Trends in cybersecurity breach disclosures Posted: 2020
L Baudot , Z Huang , D Wallace
Stakeholder perceptions of risk in mandatory corporate responsibility disclosure
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 172 , issue 1 , p. 151 - 174 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
377
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,735
RANK
180,781
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies