Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voice of the Customer: Creating Client Centered Cultures in Accounting Firms for Retaining Clients and Increasing Profitability

Journal of Accounting, Business and Management vol. 26 no. 2 (2019) 46-58

14 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2021

Leisa Gill

Austin Peay State University

Victoria McCarthy

Austin Peay State University

David Grimmett

Austin Peay State University

Date Written: October 1, 2019

Abstract

Client satisfaction and retention books line the shelves of library business sections and are frequently the subjects at conferences and online blogs. The relationship between client satisfaction and profitability is often assumed, yet not prioritized or measured. Instead, industries and companies are continuously developing new clients by selling their goods and services. The ability to compete simply on product or service no longer exists, and with the evolution of technology, customers are continuously inundated with noise. However, one could argue the greatest voice to take cues from is that of the client – meeting their needs and solving their problems. Using a case comparison method, we found that a combination of voice of the client (VoC) and “Kaizen” leads to higher levels of client satisfaction and retention levels in accounting firms.

Keywords: Voice of the Customer (VoC), Client Retention, Client Satisfaction, Customer Satisfaction, Net Promo

Suggested Citation:

Gill, Leisa and McCarthy, Victoria and Grimmett, David, Voice of the Customer: Creating Client Centered Cultures in Accounting Firms for Retaining Clients and Increasing Profitability (October 1, 2019). Journal of Accounting, Business and Management vol. 26 no. 2 (2019) 46-58, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3780409
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
and medium-sized businesses enhance their customer offerings by accessing amazon's order fulfillment, customer service, and website functionality
Amazon-Launches-New-Services-Small-Medium-SizedBusinesses Posted: 2006-09-19
K Bates , M Whittington
The customer is king. Enthroned or in exile? An analysis of the level of customer focus in leading management accounting textbooks. Accounting Education
An International Journal , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 291 - 317 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Bellis-Jones
Customer profitability analysis
Management Accounting , volume 67 , issue 2 , p. 26 - 28 Posted: 1989
J M Caragher
Four factors of successful accounting firm marketers
CPA Practice Management Forum , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 10 - 11 Posted: 2014-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
578
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,495
RANK
108,263
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies