Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Effectiveness and Corporate Sustainable Growth: The Case of Egypt

Alexandria Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 4, Issue 2, 2020

34 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2021

Hebatallah Abd El Salam Badawy

Alexandria University; Egypt Japan University of Science and Technology

Date Written: May 2020

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to examine the association between audit committee (AC hereafter) effectiveness, measured by its characteristics; AC size, AC independence and AC meetings and corporate sustainable growth rate (SGR hereafter) in the Egyptian setting. It also explores how results differ between service and non-service firms and whether the main results persist when only profitable firms are being examined.

To obtain relevant information about AC characteristics and SGR, the study relied on the board of directors’ and annual reports of non-financial firms listed on the Egyptian Stock Exchange (EGX) during the period spanning from 2015 to 2019. Multiple regression models were developed to test the research hypotheses and conduct sensitivity and additional analyses.

After controlling for audit quality, ownership concentration, firm size, firm age and firm risk, regression results didn’t Show significant positive association between AC size and SGR. However, AC independence and AC meetings are positively and significantly associated with SGR. Ownership concentration is positively and significantly associated with SGR, while audit quality is negatively and significantly associated with SGR. Two sensitivity checks and additional analyses were conducted to provide further evidence. Results are robust to an alternative measure of SGR and AC independence. The role that ACs play in SGR differ between service and non-service firms. Results remain unchanged when only profitable firms are examined.

The results demonstrate that ACs in Egypt play an important monitoring and governance role in the sustainable growth of non-financial firms listed on EGX. The Egyptian Corporate Governance Code related to ACs fulfilled its goals. The study results are of great value to policy makers, regulators, accounting professionals, researchers and other stakeholders.

Keywords: AC effectiveness, corporate sustainable growth rate (SGR), non- financial firms, Egypt

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Badawy, Hebatallah, Audit Committee Effectiveness and Corporate Sustainable Growth: The Case of Egypt (May 2020). Alexandria Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 4, Issue 2, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3780978 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3780978
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
R Alqatamin
Audit Committee Effectiveness and Company Performance
Accounting and Finance Research , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 48 - 60 Posted: 2018
Crossref
A Alzharani , K Aljaaidi
An Empirical Investigation of Audit Committee Effectiveness and Risk Management: Evidence from Saudi Arabia
Auditing & Taxation , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 39 - 49 Posted: 2015
R Appuhami , S Tashakor
The Impact of Audit Committee Characteristics on CSR Disclosure: An Analysis of Australian Firms
Australian Accounting Review , volume 27 , issue 4 , p. 400 - 420 Posted: 2017
Crossref
J Bedard , S Chtourou , L Courteau
The Effect of Audit Committee Expertise, Independence, and Activity on Aggressive Earnings Management
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 13 - 35 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
996
RANK
344,140
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies