Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adoption and Content of Key Audit Matters and Stock Price Crash Risk

Posted: 26 Feb 2021 Last revised: 22 Nov 2021

Lin Liao

Nanjing Audit Univeristy

Divesh Sharma

Kennesaw State University, School of Accountancy

Yitang (Jenny) Yang

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Rui Zhao

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Date Written: November 18, 2021

Abstract

We examine whether the mandate for auditors to report key audit matters (KAMs) affects firm-specific stock price crash risk in China. Auditors in China are required to issue an expanded audit report that contains KAMs for AH-share firms, effective January 1, 2017 (applicable to the financial year 2016), and for A-share firms, effective January 1, 2018 (applicable to the financial year 2017). Applying a staggered difference-in-differences (D-i-D) design to a sample of 15,563 observations for financial years 2012-2018, we find that auditor reporting of KAMs is not significantly associated with stock price crash risk. Textual analyses buttress this finding by revealing that the content of KAMs does not significantly impact stock price crash risk. Numerous additional analyses reinforce our primary findings. Finally, we show that our findings are not sensitive, but are robust to firms’ information environment, corporate governance, product market competition, ownership structure, and auditor size. Overall, we have confidence in our findings for informing regulators, investors, auditors, and other stakeholders interested in the economic consequences of mandating KAM disclosures.

Keywords: Expanded audit report, Key audit matters, stock price crash risk, China

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Liao, Lin and Sharma, Divesh Shankar and Yang, Yitang and Zhao, Rui, Adoption and Content of Key Audit Matters and Stock Price Crash Risk (November 18, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3780885
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
924
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies