Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Dividend Taxation Affect Voluntary Disclosure? International Evidence

64 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Mark (Shuai) Ma

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Hanlin Zhong

University of Pittsburgh

Date Written: February 5, 2021

Abstract

This study examines how dividend taxation affects corporate voluntary disclosure. Using a sample of firms in 32 OECD countries from 2001 to 2017, our difference-in-differences regressions find that higher dividend tax rates reduce both the issuance and the frequency of management forecasts. The decreases are more pronounced when governance is weaker or agency problems are potentially more severe. Also, the effect of dividend tax rates on management forecasts is asymmetric. That is, tax cuts increase management forecasts, but tax hikes do not decrease management forecasts. In addition, the change in management forecasting behavior following dividend tax changes significantly affects firms’ cost of equity and stock market liquidity. Overall, our findings are consistent with the prediction of the agency theory framework that dividend taxation negatively affects corporate voluntary disclosure behavior.

Keywords: Dividend Taxation, Voluntary Disclosure, Agency Theory

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Mark (Shuai) and Zhong, Hanlin, Does Dividend Taxation Affect Voluntary Disclosure? International Evidence (February 5, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3780190 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3780190
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
897
RANK
306,185
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies