Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental Disclosure Practices and Firm Performance; Evidence from Sri Lanka

Nimanthi, D.K.S. and Priyadarshanie, W.A.N., 2021. Environmental disclosure practices and Firm performance; evidence from Sri Lanka. International Journal of Accounting and Business Finance, 7(2), p.75-90.DOI: https://doi.org/10.4038/ijabf.v7i2.96

Posted: 19 Mar 2021 Last revised: 16 Feb 2024

D.K.S. Nimanthi

Wayamba University of Sri Lanka

Nadeesha Priyadarshanie

Wayamba University of Sri Lanka

Date Written: December 11, 2020

Abstract

The main objective of this study was to identify the impact of environmental disclosure practices on firm performance which is an emerging issue around the globe. This research relies on secondary data which was collected from published annual reports of listed companies in the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE). Data was collected from a sample of 50 companies listed under 5 sectors over consecutive four financial years from 2015 to 2018. The technique of content analysis was occupied when measuring the level of environmental disclosures. Environmental Disclosure Index (EDI) was prepared based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 2019. This study employed a regression analysis for the data analysis. The findings of this study revealed that there is a significant positive relationship between environmental disclosures and firm financial performance. However, there is no significant relationship between environmental disclosures and firm market performance. The findings of this study will accommodate annual report preparers and regulators of highly environmentally sensitive industries in creating the grounds of environmental disclosures practice to achieve higher performance.

Keywords: Environmental Disclosure, Global Reporting Initiatives, Firm Performance, Content Analysis

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G31

Suggested Citation:

Nimanthi, D.K.S. and Priyadarshanie, Nadeesha, Environmental Disclosure Practices and Firm Performance; Evidence from Sri Lanka (December 11, 2020). Nimanthi, D.K.S. and Priyadarshanie, W.A.N., 2021. Environmental disclosure practices and Firm performance; evidence from Sri Lanka. International Journal of Accounting and Business Finance, 7(2), p.75-90.DOI: https://doi.org/10.4038/ijabf.v7i2.96, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3781291
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
498
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies