Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Cost Accounting and Profitability of Glaxo Smith Kline Nigeria Plc. Listed On the NSE

Lyndon M. Etale, Ikechukwu S. Ochuba and Ayaundu E. Sawyerr (2021) Social Cost Accounting and Profitability of Glaxo Smith Kline Nigeria Plc. Listed On the NSE, European Journal of Business and Innovation Research, Vol.9, No.1, pp. 31-52

22 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2021

Lyndon M. Etale

Niger Delta University (NDU) - Faculty of Management Sciences

Ikechukwu S. Ochuba Ikechukwu S. Ochuba

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ayaundu E. Sawyerr

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 8, 2021

Abstract

This study examined the relationship between social cost accounting and profitability with a focus on GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria PLC in a case study. The study adopted employee benefits, incentives welfare and healthcare cost (EBI) and contribution to government revenue (CGR) as proxy for social cost accounting (the independent variables), while profit after tax (PAT) representing profitability was adopted as the dependent variable. Secondary data for the selected study variables were obtained through content analysis of the annual reports of GlaxoSmithKline for the period 2011 to 2018. The study employed descriptive statistics and multiple regression analysis based on the E-view 10 software as techniques for data analysis. The results revealed that all the independent variables had positive relationship with profit after tax, but only contribution to government revenue was significant at 5% level. The regression results also showed that the coefficient of determination (R-squared) value of approximately 0.94 indicating that 94% of changes in the dependent variable are accounted for by the combined effect of changes in the independent variables. The combined effect of variations of the explanatory variables significantly explained changes in the dependent variable with probability of F-statistic value of 0.000007 (at 5% level of significance). The study concluded that social cost accounting is significantly related to profitability. Based on the findings of the study it was recommended that the management of GlaxoSmithKline should continue to implement the social cost accounting policies already put in place as they provide a good social image for the company, and that would guarantee the long run success and survival of the company.

Keywords: accounting, contribution, employee benefits, profitability, social cost

Suggested Citation:

Etale, Etale and Ikechukwu S. Ochuba, Ikechukwu S. Ochuba and Sawyerr, Ayaundu E., Social Cost Accounting and Profitability of Glaxo Smith Kline Nigeria Plc. Listed On the NSE (February 8, 2021). Lyndon M. Etale, Ikechukwu S. Ochuba and Ayaundu E. Sawyerr (2021) Social Cost Accounting and Profitability of Glaxo Smith Kline Nigeria Plc. Listed On the NSE, European Journal of Business and Innovation Research, Vol.9, No.1, pp. 31-52 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3781610
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
A S Abdullah
Social and environmental accounting effect on companies' profit (An empirical study of some companies in Erbil)
Accounting and Financial Management Journal , volume 3 , issue 7 , p. 1621 - 1633 Posted: 2018
Crossref
A A Agbiogwu , J U Ihendinihu , M C Okafor
Impact of environmental accounting and social costs on performance of Nigerian manufacturing companies
International Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 8 , issue 9 , p. 173 - 180 Posted: 2016
M Ahmad , W A Waseer , S Hussain , U Ammara
Relationship between environmental accounting and non-financial firms performance: An empirical analysis of selected firms listed in Pakistan Stock Exchange
Advances in Social Sciences Research Journal , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 197 - 209 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Y A Babalola
The impact of corporate social responsibility on firms' profitability in Nigeria
Finance and Administrative Sciences , volume 45 , p. 39 - 50 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
657
RANK
451,432
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies