Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To Teach or to Learn? Disclosure Incentives in the Face of Investment Opportunities

61 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 3 Feb 2022

Zackery D. Fox

Brigham Young University

Jaewoo Kim

University of Oregon - Department of Accounting

Bryce Schonberger

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Date Written: January 31, 2022

Abstract

We exploit the U.S. shale oil revolution in the early 2010s as a plausibly exogenous shock to investment opportunities to explore managers’ disclosure incentives when faced with an uncertain investment decision. We find that affected firms in the oil and gas (O&G) industry increase capital expenditure forecasts while decreasing earnings forecasts relative to similar, capital-intensive firms outside of the O&G industry. Consistent with these disclosure patterns reflecting incentives to encourage the incorporation of private information into prices that is useful for the investment decision, cross-sectional tests show that these disclosure changes are concentrated at firms with greater expected benefits to learning from prices and that disclosing firms subsequently experience increases in both investment-q sensitivity and adverse selection costs. On the other hand, we also find that a subset of O&G firms increases their provision of earnings forecasts during the shale oil revolution consistent with a financing motive. This subsample displays an increase in equity financing combined with a decline in investment-q sensitivity, consistent with firms trading off a benefit of improved stock liquidity against less informative prices. Taken together, our evidence points to distinct cost and benefit tradeoffs in managers’ disclosure decisions under learning and financing incentives in the presence of investment opportunities.

Keywords: Investment opportunities, capital expenditure, voluntary disclosure, informational feedback effect of stock prices, liquidity, adverse selection, investment-q sensitivity

JEL Classification: G10, G11, G31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Fox, Zackery D. and Kim, Jaewoo and Schonberger, Bryce, To Teach or to Learn? Disclosure Incentives in the Face of Investment Opportunities (January 31, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3782638 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3782638
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
J Bai , T Philippon , A Savov
Have financial markets become more informative
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 122 , issue 3 , p. 625 - 654 Posted: 2016
T Bakke , T M Whited
Which firms follow the market? An analysis of corporate investment decisions
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 5 , p. 1941 - 1980 Posted: 2010
K Balakrishnan , M B Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Shaping Liquidity: On the Causal Effects of Voluntary Disclosure
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 2237 - 2278 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,299
RANK
239,255
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies