Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Partner Naming when Examining Auditor Independence and Non-Audit Services

52 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2021

Pamela Kent

University of Adelaide

Richard Kent

University of Michigan Dearborn

Grant Richardson

Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance

Divesh Sharma

Kennesaw State University, School of Accountancy

Date Written: February 8, 2021

Abstract

We examine whether the naming of partners provides a benefit to the public in the context of allowing researchers to empirically collect evidence on the economic importance of non-audit services (NAS) at the partner level. We provide evidence showing that auditor independence is impaired when auditors provide higher NAS using actual auditor provided NAS fees and the type and dollar value of those fees. Specific NAS are not banned and the identity of the audit engagement partner, NAS fees and description of the type and value of NAS from the audit firm are publicly disclosed in Australia. These data allow us to examine actual auditor provided NAS fees and type and dollar value of fees at the partner, office and firm level in an environment where NAS is not constrained by regulation. We find that higher NAS fee-based client importance is associated with fewer going concern opinions at the partner, office and firm level for distressed firms, and more earnings management at the partner level. In additional tests, we find that the observed associations are driven by non-tax NAS fee-based measures of client importance to the audit engagement partner. Hierarchical linear modelling analyses also show that reduced audit quality associated with higher NAS fees is mainly explained by partner, rather than firm and office level fees.

Keywords: Non-audit fees, Partner, Office, Audit quality

JEL Classification: G10

Suggested Citation:

Kent, Pamela and Kent, Richard and Richardson, Grant and Sharma, Divesh Shankar, The Importance of Partner Naming when Examining Auditor Independence and Non-Audit Services (February 8, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3782109 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3782109
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
125 References
D Aobdia
Proprietary information spillovers and supplier choice: Evidence from auditors
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1504 - 1539 Posted: 2015
Crossref
D Aobdia , C J Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,112
RANK
303,587
125 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies