Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Professional Management, Board Efficacy and Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence from Stock Markets in Sub-Saharan Africa

26 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 29 Mar 2023

Isaac Marfo Oduro

University of Kwazulu-Natal

Mabutho Sibanda

University of KwaZulu-Natal - Faculty of Commerce & Management (Westville Campus)

Samuel Agyei

University of Cape Coast

Date Written: February 9, 2021

Abstract

This study examined the influence of firms’ reliance on professional management (ProMgt) and board efficacy (BodEff) on financial reporting quality (FRQ) of listed firms in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). Using the system generalised method of moments (sys-GMM) framework to analyse data from 13 stock exchanges in Africa and 472 firms from 2007 to 2017, the study found that professional management and board efficacy exhibits a positive and significant relationship with financial reporting quality in SSA. Thus, policies aimed at improving financial reporting quality must consider facilitating the engagement of professional management and ensuring board efficacy.


Keywords: Financial reporting quality, Reliance on professional management, Board efficacy, Sub-Saharan Africa

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Oduro, Isaac Marfo and Sibanda, Mabutho and Agyei, Samuel, Professional Management, Board Efficacy and Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence from Stock Markets in Sub-Saharan Africa (February 9, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3782199 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3782199
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
M Alhadab , I Clacher
The impact of audit quality on real and accrual earnings management around IPOs
The British Accounting Review Posted: 2017
J L Abernathy , T R Kubick , A Masli
Evidence on the relation between managerial ability and financial reporting timeliness
International Journal of Auditing , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 185 - 196 Posted: 2018
Acfe
Fraud Examiners Manual, International Edition Posted: 2014
Acfe , J K Comprix , J Gunlock , M T Lee , D
Report to the Nation -On Occupational Fraud and Abuse, Association of Certified Fraud Examiners
Report to the Nation -On Occupational Fraud and Abuse, Association of Certified Fraud Examiners , volume 19 , p. 123 - 135 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
475
RANK
841,369
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies