Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Nonfinancial Firms Hold Risky Financial Assets? Evidence from Germany

65 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2021 Last revised: 28 Oct 2022

Daniel Hoang

University of Hohenheim

Fabian Silbereis

Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT)

Raphael Stengel

Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT)

Andreas Benz

University of Hohenheim

Date Written: October 27, 2022

Abstract

Recent empirical evidence suggests that US industrial firms invest heavily in noncash, risky financial assets. Using hand-collected data on financial portfolios of German firms, we show that risky asset holdings are not an anomaly unique to the US. We find that industrial firms in Germany invest 11.6% of financial assets in noncash and risky assets. Value-weighted, this percentage increases to 25.4%. Although the equally-weighted average is substantial, it is clearly lower (5 percentage points) than that in the US. After accounting for cross-country compositional differences (especially the dominance of the US technology sector), this difference decreases but remains at 3 percentage points. The remaining difference is driven by institutional differences. In contrast to US firms, German firms largely follow precautionary savings motives and do not seem to misappropriate funds when shifting them toward riskier asset allocations. Our results have implications for how asset management by nonfinancial firms should be regulated.

Suggested Citation:

Hoang, Daniel and Silbereis, Fabian and Stengel, Raphael and Benz, Andreas, Do Nonfinancial Firms Hold Risky Financial Assets? Evidence from Germany (October 27, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3782717 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3782717
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
Acharya , V Viral , Heitor Almeida , Murillo Campello
Aggregate Risk and the Choice between Cash and Lines of Credit
The Journal of Finance , volume 68 , issue 5 , p. 2059 - 2116 Posted: 2013
Acharya , Heitor Viral , Filippo Almeida , Ander Ippolito , Perez
Credit Lines as Monitored Liquidity Insurance: Theory and Evidence
Acharya, Viral, Itamar Drechsler, and Philipp Schnabl , volume 112 , p. 2689 - 2739 Posted: 2014
Acharya , V Viral , Tim Eisert , Christian Eufinger , Christian Hirsch
Real Effects of the Sovereign Debt Crisis in Europe: Evidence from Syndicated Loans
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 31 , issue 8 , p. 2855 - 2896 Posted: 2018
Franklin Allen , Douglas Gale , ; Almeida , Murillo Heitor , Igor Campello , Michael S Cunha , Weisbach
Corporate Liquidity Management: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Annual Review of Financial Economics , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 135 - 162 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,205
RANK
375,436
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies