Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Allocation of Decision Rights and Innovation: Evidence from Chinese Listed Business Groups

52 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Tingting Huang

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - School of Accountancy

Yilin Pan

School of Management, Nanjing University

Kai Zhu

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - School of Accountancy

Date Written: February 11, 2021

Abstract

We take advantage of data from Chinese listed business groups to investigate how the intra-firm decision rights allocation affects the firm’s innovation. Using the abnormal concentration of cash flows as a proxy for the centralization of decision rights between the top managers and the divisional managers, we document a positive relation between centralization and innovation investments, consistent with earlier studies (Argyres & Silverman, 2004; Arora et al., 2014). Tests on causal mechanisms suggest that centralization promotes innovation by internalizing inter-divisional externalities and fostering inter-divisional cooperation. Furthermore, we find that centralization increases the project size, comprehensiveness and creativeness of innovation investments, and leads to valuable innovation outcomes. Collectively, our findings suggest that centralization, as opposed to delegation, can play a positive role in corporate innovation.

Keywords: Decision rights allocation, innovation, information asymmetry, agency problem

JEL Classification: G31, O32, D82

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Tingting and Pan, Yilin and Zhu, Kai, Allocation of Decision Rights and Innovation: Evidence from Chinese Listed Business Groups (February 11, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3783698 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3783698
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Margaret A Abernethy , Emidia Vagnoni
Organization Design and Managerial Behaviour. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 29 , issue 3-4 , p. 207 - 225 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Daron Acemoglu , Philippe Aghion , Claire Lelarge , John Van Reenen , Fabrizio Zilibottik
Technology, Information, and the Decentralization of the Firm
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 122 , issue 4 , p. 1759 - 1799 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Philippe Aghion , Jean Tirole
Formal and Real Authority in Organizations
The Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Joshua Angrist , Victor Lavy , Analia Schlosser
Multiple Experiments for the Causal Link between the Quantity and Quality of Children
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 773 - 824 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
857
RANK
392,891
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies