Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance Evaluation of Commercial Banks in Oman Using Ratio Analyses

International Journal of Research in Entrepreneurship & Business Studies, 1(2), 10-21. https://doi.org/10.47259/ijrebs.212

12 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Firdouse Rahman Khan

Sohar University - Faculty of Business

Iman Sulieman Al Maktoumi

Sohar University - Faculty of Business

Date Written: January 11, 2021

Abstract

Purpose of the study: The purpose of the study was to critically analyze the effectiveness of banks’ performances and to examine the associations amongst the asset management, banks’ size, operational efficiency, and their impact on the bank’s performance.

Design/Methodology/Approach: The secondary data was obtained from the annual reports of five selected commercial banks of Oman listed in the Muscat Securities Market (MSM) for the period 2013 to 2019. The collected data was analyzed through financial ratios using excel and SPSS and was used to evaluate the banks’ performance.

Findings: The findings of the study revealed that the Operational Efficiency (OE) of the selected commercial banks had an impact on the Return on Assets (ROA); advances of the selected commercial banks had an impact on the interest income whereas operational efficiency of the selected commercial banks had NO impact on the Interest Income. The study further confirmed that Bank Muscat proved to be the bank that performed well over the years 2013 to 2019.

Research Implications: The study proved that the banks’ financial performances can be measured through the assets size, asset management, and equity management using ratio analysis which can be a good measure to adjudge the financial performances of the banks.

Social Implications: The study helps the stakeholders of the banks to understand the factors and the banking activities that might help to enhance the financial performances of the banks and to take necessary action and suitable decisions accordingly.

Originality/value: The study was restricted to five selected commercial banks of Oman and the study had relied mostly on quantitative techniques involving ratio analyses. The study can be extended to all the commercial banks in Oman including the most determining factor viz. customer satisfaction.

Keywords: Financial Performance of Banks, Operational Efficiency, Return on Assets, Return on Equity, Interest Income, Ratio Analyses

JEL Classification: G21

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Firdouse and Al Maktoumi, Iman Sulieman, Performance Evaluation of Commercial Banks in Oman Using Ratio Analyses (January 11, 2021). International Journal of Research in Entrepreneurship & Business Studies, 1(2), 10-21. https://doi.org/10.47259/ijrebs.212, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3783081
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
M H M Adam
Evaluating the financial performance of banks using financial ratios A case study of Erbil bank for investment and finance
European Journal of Accounting Auditing and Finance Research , volume 2 , issue 6 , p. 162 - 177 Posted: 2014
A M Ahmed , N Khababa
Performance of the banking sector in Saudi Arabia
Journal of Financial Management & Analysis , volume 12 , issue 2 Posted: 1999
İ Akala
Comparing Financial Performances of Conventional and Participation Banks: Case of Turkey
International Journal of Inspiration & Resilience Economy , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 11 - 17 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Al-Saidi , B Shammari
Corporate governance in Kuwait: An analysis in terms of grounded theory
International Journal of Disclosure and Governance , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 128 - 160 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
382
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,431
RANK
177,635
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies