Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Just BEAT It' Do firms reclassify costs to avoid the base erosion and anti-abuse tax (BEAT) of the TCJA?

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2021-03

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2021 Last revised: 31 Oct 2023

Stacie Kelley (Laplante)

University of Wisconsin - Madison

Christina Lewellen

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Dan Lynch

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

David M. P. Samuel

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 1, 2023

Abstract

This study empirically examines whether firms reclassify related-party payments to avoid the base erosion and anti-abuse tax (BEAT) of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA). We leverage the BEAT filing threshold and use both a difference-in-differences design among U.S. firms and a triple-difference design utilizing the parent company’s location to provide evidence that firms reclassify related-party payments to avoid the BEAT. This effect is stronger in firms with greater pre-TCJA income shifting incentives. We estimate a $6 billion aggregate reduction in U.S. taxes for our sample firms in 2018. We also examine the consequences of reclassifying related-party payments and find some evidence of an increase in tax reserves and a reduction in internal information quality for firms that engage in cost reclassification to avoid the BEAT. These findings help explain observed BEAT collection shortfalls, contribute to the current policy debate about international tax reform, and document spillover effects of tax policy.

Keywords: tax reform, international tax, tax reserves, internal information quality, TCJA, BEAT

JEL Classification: H26, F23, G30, G14

Suggested Citation:

Kelley, Stacie and Lewellen, Christina and Lynch, Dan and Samuel, David, 'Just BEAT It' Do firms reclassify costs to avoid the base erosion and anti-abuse tax (BEAT) of the TCJA? (October 1, 2023). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2021-03, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper, Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3784739 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3784739
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
J Albertus , B Glover , O Levine
Foreign investment of US multinationals: the effect of tax policy and agency conflicts
J. Financ. Econ , volume 144 , p. 298 - 327 Posted: 2022
P Allison
Change scores as dependent variables in regression analysis
Sociological methodology , p. 93 - 114 Posted: 1990
H Amberger , K Markle , D Samuel
Repatriation Taxes, Internal Agency Conflicts, and Subsidiary-Level Investment Efficiency
Account. Rev , volume 96 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2021
V Atanasov , B Black
Shock-based causal inference in corporate finance and accounting research
Finance Rev , volume 5 , p. 207 - 304 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
759
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,416
RANK
76,233
15 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies