Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Potential Tax Benefits Priced in Mergers and Acquisitions?

46 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2021

Sally Yorke

The Polytechnic University, College of Professional and Continuing Education

Phyllis Lai Lan Mo

Independent

Date Written: August 31, 2018

Abstract

Prior studies suggest that private firms pay less for acquisitions compared to public firms. In this study, we examine whether there are differences in the tax characteristics of target firms acquired by public and private bidders and whether such differences can explain variations in the premiums they offer. Our results show that relative to private bidders, public bidders acquire firms with tax attributes that can directly reduce cash taxes payable without affecting accounting income. Specifically, targets with foreign income, tax refund account and targets that are tax aggressive have a higher probability of being acquired by public firms, while those with tax credits and deferred tax assets, net operating losses and capital-loss carry-forwards have a lower probability of being acquired by public firms relative to private firms. We also find that some differences exist in the valuation of target firms' tax attributes. Public bidders, in contrast to private bidders, value potential tax benefits from acquiring a target with foreign income and tax refunds. They also value the potential tax benefits from targets that manage earnings. However, the tax aggressiveness of a target influences the acquisition and pricing by both types of bidders. Overall, our results suggest that both public and private firms make acquisitions strategically to reduce overall tax payments. By providing evidence on the role of taxes in M&A transactions, our findings inform policymakers on tax-related motivations of acquisitions by private and public firms.er Abstract

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Private firms; Public firms; Tax Characteristics; Premium

JEL Classification: G34, H24, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Yorke, Sally Mingle and Mo, Phyllis Lai Lan, Are Potential Tax Benefits Priced in Mergers and Acquisitions? (August 31, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3784348 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3784348
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
D Amiram , A M Bauer , M M Frank
Corporate Tax Avoidance and Managerial Incentives Generated by Shareholder Dividend Tax Policy. Working paper, Columbia University Posted: 2013
A J Auerbach
Corporate takeovers: Causes and consequences Posted: 2013
A J Auerbach , D Reishus
The effects of taxation on the merger decision
Corporate takeovers: Causes and consequences , p. 157 - 190 Posted: 1988
Crossref
B C Ayers , C E Lefanowicz , J R Robinson
Shareholder taxes in acquisition premiums: The effect of capital gains taxation
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 6 , p. 2783 - 2801 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
591
RANK
576,053
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies