Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Informativeness of Internal Control Weakness Disclosure on Acquirers’ M&A Decisions

3 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2021

Sally Yorke

The Polytechnic University, College of Professional and Continuing Education

Phyllis Mo

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Koon Hung Chan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 12, 2020

Abstract

We examine the relevance of the disclosure of internal control weaknesses (ICWs) by target firms for acquirers in making their merger-and-acquisition (M&A) decisions. Based on a sample of M&A transactions in 2005–2018, we find that acquirers offer lower premiums for targets that disclose ICWs (ICW targets) before the acquisition, compared with targets that disclose no ICWs. This result is contrary to prior studies that rely on accrual quality and other proxies of targets’ information quality. We also find that acquirers offer less cash for ICW targets and that, also contrary to prior studies, ICW disclosure does not increase the probability of renegotiation on deals. The influence of ICW disclosure on premium and payment structure is more pronounced when acquirers and ICW targets are in different industries and when they do not share a common auditor. Overall, the results indicate that ICW disclosure by targets is informative to acquirers. We contribute to the literature by providing a comprehensive analysis on ICW and examining aspects of acquisitions not addressed in previous studies.

Keywords: Acquisition decisions, Disclosure of internal control weakness, Information quality, Mergers and acquisitions, Post-acquisition performance

JEL Classification: G34, D81, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Yorke, Sally Mingle and Mo, Phyllis and Chan, Koon Hung, The Informativeness of Internal Control Weakness Disclosure on Acquirers’ M&A Decisions (February 12, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3784374 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3784374
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
575
RANK
499,012
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies