Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Labor Protection and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from International Equity Markets

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2021 Last revised: 6 Nov 2023

Wei Chen

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Lili Dai

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Xiaohua Fang

Florida Atlantic University

Wenjun Zhang

Dalhousie University

Date Written: November 3, 2023

Abstract

We utilize the exogenous intertemporal variation in employment protection across countries and study the impact of employment protection on international equity markets. We find robust evidence that firms located in countries with weak labor protection regulation exhibit a low level of one-year-ahead stock price crash risks relative to those in countries with strong labor protection regulation. It is consistent with the view that when employees face material unemployment risk, they are more incentivized to engage in information search and analysis, thereby curtailing the effectiveness of managerial bad news hoarding activities (i.e., the protection heightening risk hypothesis). Our findings are robust to a battery of sensitivity tests. Further evidence shows that the impact of employment protection on crash risk is more pronounced for firms with a higher proclivity to suppress bad news and for firms in countries with stronger legal enforcement. Our findings have important implications for policymakers concerning equity extreme risk and labor protection around the globe.

Keywords: Labor protection, Crash risk, International evidence

JEL Classification: J01, K31, G12

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Wei and Dai, Lili and Fang, Xiaohua and Zhang, Wenjun, Labor Protection and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from International Equity Markets (November 3, 2023). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3784045
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
987
RANK
856,579
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies