Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Theories of Corporate Governance and Suggested Solutions to Its Legislation Completion in Vietnam

: Ho Ngoc Hien and Phan Dang Hai, The Theories of Corporate Governance and Suggested Solutions to its Legislation Completion in Vietnam, International Journal of Management, 11(12), 2020, pp 12-19.

8 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

HO NGOC HIEN

Graduate Academy of Social Sciences, Vietnam

PHAN DANG HAI

Banking Academy, Vietnam

Date Written: February 13, 2021

Abstract

Currently, there are three popular theories of corporate governance widely applied in the field of jurisprudence worldwide. They are Agency Theory, Stewardship Theory, and Stakeholder Theory. Based on these theories, the article focuses on clarifying legal issues about corporate governance, thereby suggesting solutions to the improvement of corporate governance legislation in Vietnam at present time.

Keywords: Corporate governance, corporate governance legislation, Vietnam.

Suggested Citation:

HIEN, HO NGOC and HAI, PHAN DANG, The Theories of Corporate Governance and Suggested Solutions to Its Legislation Completion in Vietnam (February 13, 2021). : Ho Ngoc Hien and Phan Dang Hai, The Theories of Corporate Governance and Suggested Solutions to its Legislation Completion in Vietnam, International Journal of Management, 11(12), 2020, pp 12-19. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3785119
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A Alchian , &amp; H Demsetz
Production, Information, Costs and Economic Organization
American Economic Review , volume 62 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
Crossref
ACMF Posted: 2012
Crossref
Benjamin Coriat , &amp; Oliver Weinstein
New Theories of Enterprise (translated from the original: Les Nouvelles Théories De L'entreprise) Posted: 1995
Crossref
A Berle , G Means
The Modern Corporation and Private Property Posted: 1932
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
832
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,335
RANK
67,447
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies