Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bridging Organizational Resilience and Management Control Systems - A Systematic Review

124 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2021 Last revised: 27 Dec 2021

Max M. Weber

University of Applied Sciences Aschaffenburg

Peter Gordon Roetzel

University of Stuttgart; University of Applied Sciences Aschaffenburg

Date Written: January 30, 2021

Abstract

Organizations have repeatedly faced challenges due to disasters such as pandemics, economic or financial crises, and other unexpected events. One reason why some organizations cope more efficiently than others with such unforeseen circumstances might be their specific resilience design. Despite considerable research on organizational resilience, there is still no consensus on how “resilience” should be defined and understood, how it is conceptualized at the organizational level, and how it interacts with management control systems (MCSs). This study bridges the literatures on MCSs and organizational resilience to provide a broader understanding of how organizations can cope with adverse events.
To identify potential relationships between MCSs and organizational resilience, we perform a systematic review of the literature, which we supplement through content analysis and citation network analysis. We use MCSs to investigate different approaches to achieving organizational resilience, as well as the relationships, trade-offs, and complementarities between organizational resilience measures and management controls. We draw on Simons’s “levers of control” framework and apply complementarity theory to explain the relationship between the design and usage of MCSs on the one hand and organizational resilience on the other. Our study reveals gaps in the literatures on MCSs and organizational resilience and proposes avenues and a preliminary roadmap for future research. Our findings suggest that organizations might strengthen their resilience if they integrate measures of organizational resilience into their MCSs. We also introduce the concepts of resilience-oriented management controls (ROMC) and discuss how organizations could increase their resilience capacity by building such systems (ROMCS).


Keywords: Complementarity theory, levers of control, management control systems, organizational resilience, systematic review

JEL Classification: M10, M40, M41, L20

Suggested Citation:

Weber, Maximilian and Roetzel, Peter Gordon, Bridging Organizational Resilience and Management Control Systems - A Systematic Review (January 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3785416 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3785416
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
N A S Abdullah , N L M Noor , E N M Ibrahim
Resilient organization: Modelling the capacity for resilience
2013 International Conference on Research and Innovation in Information Systems (ICRIIS) , p. 319 - 324 Posted: 2013
W J Abernathy , J M Utterback
Patterns of industrial innovation
Technol Rev , volume 80 , issue 7 , p. 40 - 47 Posted: 1978
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
Determinants of Control System Design in Divisionalized Firms
Account Rev , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 545 - 570 Posted: 2004
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
Leadership and control system design
J Manag Account Res , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 2 - 16 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
343
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,808
RANK
200,166
3 Citations
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies