Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Characteristics and Audit Fees of Listed Consumer Goods Sector in Nigeria

European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research, Vol.9, No. 2, pp.27-50, 2021

24 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2021

seini abu

Federal University Dutsin-Ma

James Uchenna, Okpe

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 13, 2021

Abstract

The audit committee of every Company was established with defined responsibilities of monitoring and supervising financial reporting, internal control system, internal and external audit functions among others to avoid the fraudulent and unethical practice. Despite the establishment of an audit committee, the companies' continuous experience collapsing due to fraudulent and unethical behaviour. The collapsing of the companies was attributed to many factors, such as weak audit members, fraudulent and unethical on the appointment of audit committee members and external auditors, lack of diversity in the audit committee appointment among others. This study examines audit committee characteristics and audit fees of listed consumer goods companies in Nigeria. 15 companies were selected out of 26 listed consumer goods companies on the Nigerian Stock Exchange as at 31st December 2018 using secondary data through the published audited financial statements. Ordinary least square (OLS) regression analysis was employed to analyze the data. The result reveals that only four variables (audit committee size, audit committee meeting, audit committee diversity, and audit committee share ownership) have a positive significant association with audit fees. The study recommends that audit committee size should be increase to the minimum of 5 and maximum of 7 members, audit committee meeting should be increased to the minimum of 4 and maximum of 6 meetings, audit committee diversity (women directors) should be increase to the maximum of 3 members, and audit committee share ownership should be increase to the minimum of 2 and maximum of 3 members for all consumer goods companies operating in Nigeria.

Keywords: audit fees, audit committee and corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

abu, seini and Okpe, James Uchenna,, Audit Committee Characteristics and Audit Fees of Listed Consumer Goods Sector in Nigeria (February 13, 2021). European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research, Vol.9, No. 2, pp.27-50, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3785240
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
S Abu
Effect of board monitoring mechanisms on audit quality of Listed Manufacturing Firms in Nigeria
KSU Research Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 85 Posted: 2020
S O Abu , A S Alhassan , J Okpe
Board committees and financial performance of Listed Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria
FUDMA Journal of Management Sciences , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 33 - 46 Posted: 2020
S O Abu , J Okpanachi , A Yahaya
Family and foreign ownership of Listed Manufacturing Firms in Nigeria
Global Journal of Management and Business Research: D Accounting and Auditing , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 79 Posted: 2019
S O Abu , A O Yahaya , C Abah
Audit committee effectiveness and audit quality of Listed Insurance Companies in Nigeria
International Journal of Research in Finance and Management , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 35 - 44 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
854
RANK
324,308
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies