Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Life Cycle and Firms’ Performance: An Empirical Study on DSE Listed Companies (Miscellaneous Sector)

Cash Flow Patterns as a Proxy for Firm Life Cycle, 2020 https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=755804

49 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2021

Nafiz Mahmud Mazumder

University of Dhaka

Date Written: October 3, 2020

Abstract

This study investigates 12 DSE listed miscellaneous companies' performance based on Dickinson's cash flow and life-cycle measure theory. This correlational research is conducted using the magnitude of cash flows and other variables. Finally, the interpreted regression analysis shows the profitability status of firms in their life-cycle proxies. The result shows strong evidence about the positive association of long-term debt, short-term liquidity, and meeting frequency with sample firms' profitability. Likewise, this research shows a negative association of inventories, Female BOD members, Board Size, and independent Board of directors with sample firms' profitability (ROA). This research also shows a robust positive association between firms' profitability and the life-cycle decline stage.

The report has five chapters. Chapter one is the introductory part, comprising the research objective, limitations, theoretical and practical contribution of the study, and thesis framework. The second chapter is 'Literature Review,' which contains corporate life cycle theory and research objective, summaries of related research papers, and articles. Chapter three is 'Research Methodology,' which includes detailed data collection methods, sample size description, research model (Regression model), and specific definitions of variables. Chapter four is 'Results analysis,' comprising descriptive statistics, correlation statistics, regression results with interpretation, and other relevant tables and figures. Finally, Chapter Five is 'Findings, Recommendations & Conclusion' - including significant findings and recommendations with further research scope at the end of this thesis report.

Keywords: Firm life cycle, cash flow, ROA, profitability

Suggested Citation:

Mazumder, Nafiz Mahmud, Corporate Life Cycle and Firms’ Performance: An Empirical Study on DSE Listed Companies (Miscellaneous Sector) (October 3, 2020). Cash Flow Patterns as a Proxy for Firm Life Cycle, 2020 https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=755804, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3785942 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3785942
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Adj
Crossref
*** , ** 1% , 5% , 10%
Source: Constructed From Table , volume 11
Crossref
• CLC_MATURITY has coefficient value of 0.073 (t = 9 , volume 22
Crossref
• CLC_DECLINE has coefficient value of 0.102 (t = 9 , volume 66
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
857
RANK
499,012
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies