Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Knowledge Management Strategies on the Relationship between Intellectual Capital and Innovation: Evidence from SMEs

Hayaeian, S., Hesarzadeh, R. and Abbaszadeh, M.R. (2021), "The impact of knowledge management strategies on the relationship between intellectual capital and innovation: evidence from SMEs", Journal of Intellectual Capital, Vol. ahead-of-print No. ahead-of-print. https://doi.org/10.1108/JIC-07-2020

Posted: 9 Mar 2021

Sahar Hayaeian

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad

Reza Hesarzadeh

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad

Mohammad Reza Abbaszadeh

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad (FUM)

Date Written: February 13, 2021

Abstract

Purpose
The purpose of this study is to investigate the moderating role of knowledge management (KM) strategies in developing the effect of intellectual capital (IC) on innovation for small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Specifically, the current study explores how different interactions between IC and KM strategies lead to more powerful innovation in SMEs.

Design/methodology/approach
This study analyzes survey responses from 170 owners/managers of SMEs in Iran. The study uses partial least square structural equation modeling methods within Smart PLS software.

Findings
This study reveals that first IC has an excellent level of engagement with both incremental and radical types of innovation, but its engagement level with radical innovation is higher than that for incremental innovation. Second, the human capital component of IC has a direct positive impact on radical innovation although it has no significant impact on incremental innovation. Third, the personalization strategy of KM positively moderates the impact of human capital on both incremental and radical innovation.

Originality/value
This paper is an empirical attempt in SMEs to combine IC and KM strategies to strengthen innovation. It presents research community for SMEs of a developing country that has been investigated in a limited way compared to large firms of developed nations and provides valuable insights into further research.

Keywords: Codification strategy, Personalization strategy, Intellectual capital, Innovation, SMEs

JEL Classification: M41, M10, M13, M19, M50, G30, G34, O34

Suggested Citation:

Hayaeian, Sahar and Hesarzadeh, Reza and Abbaszadeh, Mohammad Reza, The Impact of Knowledge Management Strategies on the Relationship between Intellectual Capital and Innovation: Evidence from SMEs (February 13, 2021). Hayaeian, S., Hesarzadeh, R. and Abbaszadeh, M.R. (2021), "The impact of knowledge management strategies on the relationship between intellectual capital and innovation: evidence from SMEs", Journal of Intellectual Capital, Vol. ahead-of-print No. ahead-of-print. https://doi.org/10.1108/JIC-07-2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3785214
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
687
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies