Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review of Hedge Fund Activism: Impact on Shareholders and Stakeholders

Forthcoming in Oxford Handbook of Hedge Funds

42 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Hadiye Aslan

Georgia State University - Department of Finance

Date Written: February 13, 2021

Abstract

Hedge fund activism has attracted substantial public attention because of its large financial resources, and ambitious agendas for corporate change through shifts in strategy, productive efficiency, sales of non-performing assets, restructuring of boards and corporate governance mechanisms. The results of the earlier research suggest that hedge fund activism is not just a "stock market sideshow" but appears to induce real effects. Hedge fund activism also has product market and other externalities or effects, however. Theoretically, exogenous productive efficiency improvements and changes in business strategy can impact industry equilibrium and rival companies through a variety of channels; influence vertical relationships with customers and suppliers because of operating and financial interdependence across the value chain; sway debtholders by shifting the balance of power between shareholders and debtholders and exacerbating shareholder-debtholder conflicts; and hurt target employees both along the extensive (number of workers) and intensive margins (number of work hours) through shifts in business strategy. This chapter provides a brief review of recent developments on hedge fund activism, emphasizing its impact on shareholders (both in the short-run and long-run), other stakeholders, and industry rivals of target firms. The chapter closes with a discussion of recent trends in hedge fund activism in global capital markets.

Keywords: Hedge fund activism, shareholders, stakeholders

Suggested Citation:

Aslan, Hadiye, A Review of Hedge Fund Activism: Impact on Shareholders and Stakeholders (February 13, 2021). Forthcoming in Oxford Handbook of Hedge Funds, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3785292 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3785292
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
A Agrawal , Y Lim
Where do shareholder gains in hedge fund activism come from? Evidence from employee pension plans Posted: 2020
A Aiken , L Choonsik
Let's talk sooner rather than later: The strategic communication decisions of activist blockholders
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 62 Posted: 2020
Crossref
H Aslan
Shareholders versus Stakeholders in Investor Activism: Value for Whom?
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 60 Posted: 2020
Crossref
H Aslan , P Kumar
The product market effects of hedge fund activism
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 119 , p. 226 - 248 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
393
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,215
RANK
172,005
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies