Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
European Firms’ Corporate Biodiversity Disclosures and Board Gender Diversity From 2002 to 2016

Haque, F. and Jones, M. J. (2020). ‘European firms’ corporate biodiversity disclosures and board gender diversity from 2002 to 2016’, The British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

2 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2021 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Faizul Haque

University of Southampton

Michael Jones

University of Bristol

Date Written: January 1, 2020

Abstract

We examine how board gender diversity is associated with biodiversity disclosures of a firm, and whether the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the EU biodiversity strategy reinforce this relationship. Using institutional theory and resource dependency theory, our sample comprises 4,013 firm-year observations from European corporations covering data from 2002 to 2016. We use panel regressions with country, time and industry dummy variables to analyse the disclosure of biodiversity initiatives (DBI) and logit regressions to explain biodiversity impact assessment (BIA). We find that board gender diversity is positively associated with the DBI and BIA of a firm, and that the GRI framework and the EU biodiversity strategy positively moderate this relationship. Moreover, the GRI framework and the EU strategic plan show positive relationship with the DBI, rather than BIA. Altogether, our evidence suggests that corporate boards with a higher proportion of female directors are more sensitive to the concerns of institutional pressures and respond to those concerns by increasing corporate biodiversity disclosures. Overall, we find that firms tend to comply with the GRI framework and the EU 2020 strategy by undertaking symbolic biodiversity disclosures, rather than providing a comprehensive disclosure of their impacts on biodiversity.

Keywords: Biodiversity Accounting, Board Gender Diversity, Corporate Biodiversity Initiatives, EU Biodiversity Strategy, GRI

Suggested Citation:

Haque, Faizul and Jones, Michael, European Firms’ Corporate Biodiversity Disclosures and Board Gender Diversity From 2002 to 2016 (January 1, 2020). Haque, F. and Jones, M. J. (2020). ‘European firms’ corporate biodiversity disclosures and board gender diversity from 2002 to 2016’, The British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3786233
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Abeer Hassan , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Suman Lodh , Lee Roberts , Monomita Nandy
The Future of Non-Financial Businesses Reporting: Learning from the COVID-19 Pandemic
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management 2021 · 22 Pages · Posted: 14 Apr 2021 · Downloads: 149
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
8
ABSTRACT VIEWS
609
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies