Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Type, IFRS Adoption and Unconditional Conservatism

24 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2021

Debarati Basu

Shiv Nadar University, School of Management and Entrepreneurship

Date Written: December 1, 2021

Abstract

Purpose: The purpose of this study is to investigate how private and public firms vary with respect to unconditional conservatism levels in financial reporting. The study also examines whether adoption of international accounting standards affects the association between conservatism and organizational form.

Design/methodology/approach: This study uses a large Indian sample of almost 63,000 firm-year observations across more than 15,500 firms (~41% of which are private firms) over 10 years (2011-2020) with multivariate regressions.

Findings: The study shows that private firms are less unconditionally conservative than public firms. Also, contrary to extant literature, adoption of international accounting studies increases conservatism for all firms in the context under study. However, the newer standards moderate and reduce the conservatism gap between private and public firms. These results hold even after controlling for monitoring, governance, and group affiliation.

Originality/value: To the best of my knowledge, this is the first study that explores unconditional conservatism across private and public firms in an emerging market context which is very different from the developed world. This adds significantly to our understanding of how organization type impacts financial reporting. Within this framework, the study of different accounting standards also helps show that the effect of IFRS-like standards on reporting choices varies significantly by context and region.


Keywords: Unconditional conservatism; Financial reporting quality; Private firms; Emerging markets; IFRS

JEL Classification: L33, M41, M48, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Debarati, Ownership Type, IFRS Adoption and Unconditional Conservatism (December 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3787874 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3787874
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Crossref
P André , A Filip , L Paugam
The effect of mandatory IFRS adoption on conditional conservatism in Europe
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 42 , issue 3-4 , p. 482 - 514 Posted: 2015
Crossref
S Balachandran , P Mohanram
Is the decline in the value relevance of accounting driven by increased conservatism?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 272 - 301 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
760
RANK
461,853
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies