Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Ownership Structure and Board Characteristics on Auditor Choice: Evidence from Egypt

International Journal of Disclosure and Governance

33 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2021

Mohamed M. El-Dyasty

Mansoura University

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Date Written: February 16, 2021

Abstract

In this study, we explore the influence of board characteristics and ownership structure on auditor choice decisions in less strictly legal environments, like Egypt. Using a large sample of 899 firm-year observations for the period of 2011 to 2019, we employed logistic and probit regressions. We find that larger boards, institutional ownership, and foreign ownership have a significant and positive association with appointing Big 4 auditors. In contrast, our findings indicate that CEO duality and family ownership are negatively related to Big 4 choice. Our results also show that powerful CEOs (duality) and independent directors are more likely to hire second-tier auditors instead of Big 4, whereas larger board and foreign owners are less likely to hire third-tier auditors. Our results remain robust even after taking audit committee characteristics and endogeneities issues into consideration. Taken together, our research, therefore, provides consistent evidence that different governance and institutional variables can effectively generate economic forces that can support diverging decisions regarding the auditor choice patterns to attenuate agency problems. Our results have important implications for regulators, policymakers, and auditors to understand the drivers of auditor choice and audit market structure.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Big 4, auditor choice, ownership structure, developing countries, agency problems.

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

El-Dyasty, Mohamed M. and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed, The Effect of Ownership Structure and Board Characteristics on Auditor Choice: Evidence from Egypt (February 16, 2021). International Journal of Disclosure and Governance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3787129
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
L Abbott , S Parker
Auditor selection and audit committee characteristics
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Abdel-Meguid , K Samaha , K Dahawy
Preliminary Evidence on the Relationship between Corporate Governance Attributes and Audit Committee Functionality in Egypt: Beyond Checking the Box
Corporate Governance , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 197 - 210 Posted: 2014
Crossref
W Abdullah , S Ismail , N Jamaluddin
The Impact of Board Composition
Ownership And CEO Duality on Audit Quality: The Malaysian Evidence. Malaysian Accounting Review , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 28 Posted: 2008
A Afify
Determinants of Audit Report Lag: Does Implementing Corporate Governance Have Any Impact? Empirical Evidence from Egypt
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 56 - 86 Posted: 2009
Load more
3 Citations
Mohamed M. El-Dyasty , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer
Multiple audit mechanism, audit quality and cost of debt: Empirical evidence from a developing country
El-Dyasty, MM. and Elamer, AA. (2022). Multiple audit mechanism, audit quality and cost of debt : empirical evidence from a developing country. International Journal of Disclosure and Governance. Forthcoming, (Accepted 4 March 2022) · 35 Pages · Posted: 17 May 2017 · Last revised: 5 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 299
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Stephen Armstrong , Craig Mclaughlin , Maha Moustafa , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer
Audit Committee Diversity and Corporate Scandals: Evidence from the UK
International Journal of Accounting and Information Management · 52 Pages · Posted: 13 Aug 2021 · Downloads: 474
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hossam Sharawi Hassan
The impact of ownership structure on external audit quality: A comparative study between Egypt and Saudi Arabia”
15 Pages · Posted: 29 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 67
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
756
RANK
345,746
3 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies