Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enhancement in Firms’ Information Environment via Options Trading and the Efficiency of Corporate Investment

Journal of Banking and Finance, forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2021 Last revised: 17 Feb 2023

Seraina C. Anagnostopoulou

University of Piraeus, Department of Banking and Financial Management

Lenos Trigeorgis

University of Cyprus - Department of Public and Business Administration; King’s College London; Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Andrianos E. Tsekrekos

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: February 14, 2023

Abstract

We examine the association between enhancement in a firm’s information environment via options trading and firm investment efficiency. Investment inefficiency is partly driven by information asymmetries between firm managers and capital providers, aggravating moral hazard concerns. We test whether enhancement in a firm’s information environment through higher volumes of options trading (including a natural experiment involving exogenous shocks via the Penny Pilot Program) is positively related to more efficient firm investment decisions. Our results confirm that enhanced informational efficiency via higher volumes of options trading is positively related to improvements in firm-level investment efficiency. Our findings are in line with the enhancement in the information environment stemming from options trading reducing agency and moral hazard concerns (an agency channel) and are not driven by alternative explanations such as managerial learning from informed traders or the lower cost of capital. Overall, our findings suggest that an enhanced information environment via more options trading benefits firms’ investment decisions.

Keywords: information environment enhancement, option trading activity, corporate investment efficiency, under- or over-investment, information asymmetry, agency costs, managerial learning

JEL Classification: G12, G31, D81

Suggested Citation:

Anagnostopoulou, Seraina C. and Trigeorgis, Lenos and Tsekrekos, Andrianos E., Enhancement in Firms’ Information Environment via Options Trading and the Efficiency of Corporate Investment (February 14, 2023). Journal of Banking and Finance, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3788992 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3788992
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,385
RANK
257,340
8 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies