Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Announcement Delays and Implications for the Auditor-Client Relationship

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2021-18

63 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2021

Kimball Chapman
Michael S. Drake

Brigham Young University - Marriott School

Joseph H. Schroeder

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

Date Written: February 18, 2021

Abstract

We examine whether delays in the expected release of annual earnings have implications for the future auditor-client relationship. Managers have strong incentives to release earnings on schedule and auditors play an important role in helping their clients avoid costly earnings announcement delays. We find an increased likelihood of subsequent auditor-client realignments after earnings announcement delays. We further find that clients changing auditors realign with audit firms that better meet their earnings announcement timing demands without any evidence of a significant compromise to the reliability of the financial statement numbers in the earnings announcement. Our results help inform regulatory concerns about audit market concentration and how audit firm turnover has the potential to impact the auditor-client dynamic. While it is possible that auditor turnover could lead to a power imbalance where clients gain leverage in the relationship, our results suggest otherwise.

Keywords: earnings announcements, audit, delay, auditor turnover

Suggested Citation:

Chapman, Kimball and Drake, Michael S. and Schroeder, Joseph H. and Seidel, Timothy A., Earnings Announcement Delays and Implications for the Auditor-Client Relationship (February 18, 2021). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2021-18, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3788350
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J L Abernathy , B Beyer , A Masli , C Stefaniak
The association between characteristics of audit committee accounting experts, audit committee chairs, and financial reporting timeliness
Advances in Accounting, incorporating Advances in International Accounting , volume 30 , p. 283 - 297 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession (ACAP) Posted: 2008
Crossref
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,228
RANK
253,593
3 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies