Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Institutions Mergers: A Strategy Choice of Wealth Maximisation and Economic Value

Hassan, M. and Giouvris, E. (2020), "Financial institutions mergers: a strategy choice of wealth maximisation and economic value", Journal of Financial Economic Policy, Vol. 12 No. 4, pp. 495-529. https://doi.org/10.1108/JFEP-06-2019-0113

35 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2021

Evangelos Giouvris

Royal Holloway, University of London

Evangelos Giouvris

Durham University - Department of Economics and Finance

Date Written: October 5, 2020

Abstract

Purpose: The purpose of this paper is to examine the effects of bank mergers on systemic and systematic risks on the relative merits of product and market diversification strategies. It also observes determinants of M&A deals criteria, product and market diversification positioning, crisis threshold and other regulatory and market factors.

Design/methodology/approach: This research examines the impact and association between merger announcements and regulatory reforms at bank and system levels by investigating the impact of various bank consolidation strategies on firms’ risks. We estimate beta(s) as an index of financial institutions’ systematic risk. We then develop an index of the estimated equity value loss as the long-rum marginal expected shortfall (LRMES). LRMES contributes to compute systemic risk (SRISK) contribution of these firms, which is the capital that a firm is expected to need if we have another financial crisis.

Findings: Large acquiring banks decrease systemic risk contribution in cross-border M&As with a non-bank financial institution, and witness profitability (ROA) gains, supporting geographic diversification stability. Capital requirements, activity restrictions and bank concentration increase systemic risk contribution in national mergers. Bank mergers with investment FIs targets enhance productivity but impair technical efficiency, contrary to bank-real estate deals where technical efficiency change accompanied lower systemic risk contribution.

Originality/value: A significant advancement over the current literature is in assessing mergers, not only for bank bidders but also for the three pillars FIs of the financial sector; banks, real-estate companies and investment companies mergers. It is an improvement over current finance literature because it deploys two different strategies in the analysis. At a univariate level, shareholder value creation and market reaction to merger announcements are examined over short (-5 or +5 days) and long (+230 days) windows of the event. Followed by regressing, the resultant CARs and BHARs over financial performance variables at the multivariate level.

Keywords: Bank Mergers, Economic Value Addition, Ring-Fencing, Financial Institutions Consolidation Strategies

JEL Classification: G01, G12, G2, G32, G34, E58, O43

Suggested Citation:

Giouvris, Evangelos and Giouvris, Evangelos, Financial Institutions Mergers: A Strategy Choice of Wealth Maximisation and Economic Value (October 5, 2020). Hassan, M. and Giouvris, E. (2020), "Financial institutions mergers: a strategy choice of wealth maximisation and economic value", Journal of Financial Economic Policy, Vol. 12 No. 4, pp. 495-529. https://doi.org/10.1108/JFEP-06-2019-0113, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3788073
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Y Altunbas , M D Ibanez
Mergers and acquisitions and bank performance in Europe: the role of strategic similarities
Journal of Economics and Business , volume 60 , issue 3 , p. 204 - 222 Posted: 2008
Crossref
D Amel , C Barnes , F Panetta , C Salleo
Consolidation and efficiency in the financial sector: a review of the international evidence
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 28 , issue 10 , p. 2493 - 2519 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Y Amihud , G L Delong , A Saunders
The effects of cross-border bank mergers on bank risk and value
Journal of International Money and Finance , volume 21 , issue 6 , p. 857 - 877 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D Andriosopoulos , S Yang
The impact of institutional investors on mergers and acquisitions in the United Kingdom
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 50 , p. 547 - 561 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
676
RANK
534,717
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies