Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Applying Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence to CSR-Compliance. A Conceptual Framework with Illustrations.

15 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2021

Peter Kotzian

Heinrich Heine University Dusseldorf; Technical University of Darmstadt

Date Written: February 19, 2021

Abstract

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) became an ever more relevant theme for firms in their dealings with investors, customers, and the public at large. CSR is also a domain, where problems of misconduct and non-compliance may occur. Investors and Activists are interested in the CSR-related compliance for practical reasons, researchers are interested in whether compliance in the domain of CSR can be predicted or detected. Structurally, this problem is similar to detecting non-compliance in the domain of financial regulation (fraud detection), a standard application of methods of artificial intelligence and machine learning, which are already applied successfully in the domain of legal /financial compliance. A yet unanswered question is, whether such methods can be applied in the domain of CSR, too. This conceptual paper outlines possible strategies for applying methods of artificial intelligence and machine learning to the domain of CSR. The paper starts out from elaborating differences between compliance in the domain of CSR, compared to legal and financial compliance. A crucial difference is that in the case of legal and financial compliance, non-compliance is defined in legal terms, and can, in principle, be recognized objectively, with official institutions doing the classification on which data sets are based. In the domain of CSR, compliance is more difficult to define and, consequentially, much more difficult to detect. This paper proposes and illustrates options for harnessing the potential of methods of machine learning and artificial intelligence for issues of CSR-related non-compliance.

Keywords: Compliance, Corporate Social Responsibility, CSR; Artificial Intelligence; Machine Learning

JEL Classification: C45, C38, G30, G38

Suggested Citation:

Kotzian, Peter, Applying Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence to CSR-Compliance. A Conceptual Framework with Illustrations. (February 19, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3788977 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3788977
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
H Aguinis , A Glavas
What We Know and Don't Know About Corporate Social Responsibility: A Review and Research Agenda
Journal of Management , volume 38 , p. 932 - 968 Posted: 2012
Crossref
W S Albrecht , C O Albrecht , C C Albrecht , &amp; M F Zimbelman
Fraud Examination Posted: 2016
Crossref
B Baesens , V Van , &amp; W Vlasselaer , Verbeke
Fraud Analytics Using Descriptive, Predictive, and Social Network Techniques: A Guide to Data Science for Fraud Detection Posted: 2015
R H Berry , F Yeung
Are Investors Willing to Sacrifice Cash for Morality?
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 117 , p. 477 - 492 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
704
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,062
RANK
84,001
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies