Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Political Preferences of Activist CEOs

Pi Sigma Alpha Undergraduate Journal of Politics (2020)

15 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2021 Last revised: 13 Jul 2025

Joshua Hochberg

Independent

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

Recent scholarship on the political preferences and behaviors of CEOs report that CEOs hold conservative political views and that these views influence both their firms’ and employees’ behavior. Most recently, Chatterji and Toffel (2019) suggest CEOs are just as effective as politicians at shaping public opinion. Yet, little is known about the CEOs most likely to influence public opinion by issuing public statements. This research hypothesizes that although most CEOs hold Republican preferences, CEO activism has a Democratic tilt, whereby CEOs who are Democrats engage in it more often than CEOs who are Republicans. Using Bonica’s CF scores, self-collected data on CEO activism, and in-depth case studies, this research finds strong evidence to support its hypothesis. Additionally, this research finds that CEO activism frequency is significantly influenced by a CEO’s partisan preferences and not the characteristics associated with investment in other forms of corporate political activity (CPA), confirming recent suggestions that CEO activism is distinct from CPA. These findings provide insight into the ideology of the CEOs most likely to be influencing public opinion by making public statements and contradicts the perceived homogeneity of CEOs’ political preferences.

Suggested Citation:

Hochberg, Joshua, The Political Preferences of Activist CEOs (2020). Pi Sigma Alpha Undergraduate Journal of Politics (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3789052
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
John C Alpin , W Harvey Hegarty
Political In uence: Strategies Employed by Organizations to Impact Legislation in Business and Economic Matters
Management Journal , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 438 - 450 Posted: 1980
Ansolabehere , John M Stephen , James M De Figueiredo , Snyder
Why Is ere So Little Money in U
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 105 - 130 Posted: 2003
Ilona Babenko , Viktar Fedaseyeu , Song Zhang
Do CEOs A ect Employees' Political Choices?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 1781 - 1817 Posted: 2020
Ilona Babenko , Viktar Fedaseyeu , Song Zhang
Executives in Politics Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
847
RANK
472,791
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies