Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Internal Audit Function Outsourcing Among Micro, Small and Medium Sized Enterprises in Lagos State

International Journal of Small Business and Entrepreneurship Research, Vol.9, No.1, pp.22-36, 2021

15 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2021

Yisa Ayinla Adeniji

Yaba College of Technology - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: February 22, 2021

Abstract

Micro, Small and Medium Scale enterprises (MSMEs) are recognized globally as the bedrock of meaningful development in any economy. MSMEs significantly contribute to employment and the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in emerging economies. Sequel to the economic recession, the Federal Government through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) established a N75billion survival fund to revitalize the MSMEs in the county. Consequently, and to ensure effective utilization of the fund, the study examines the key factors influencing the outsourcing of internal audit function (IAF) among MSMEs in Lagos State. The study adopted survey research design, using purposive sampling technique to select 170 respondents among registered MSMEs by SMEDAN in Lagos. An adapted structured questionnaire was used to collect data, validated using Cronbach alpha with 85% percent response rate. Descriptive and inferential analysis revealed that factors influencing (IAF) outsourcing include asset specificity (3.35), environmental uncertainty (3.53) and cost of auditing (3.43) mean value. This implies that insufficient in-house knowledge, availability of external service providers and cost benefit analysis are major reasons for IAF outsourcing by MSMEs in Nigeria. The study recommended that owners and managers’ of MSMEs should ensure that audit functions are outsourced to external professionals in order to achieve high audit quality at a reduced cost.

Keywords: asset specificity, cost, environmental uncertainty, internal audit, outsourcing

Suggested Citation:

Adeniji, Yisa Ayinla, Determinants of Internal Audit Function Outsourcing Among Micro, Small and Medium Sized Enterprises in Lagos State (February 22, 2021). International Journal of Small Business and Entrepreneurship Research, Vol.9, No.1, pp.22-36, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3790503
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
its implications for organizational performance in the hotel sector
Tourism Management , volume 26 , p. 707 - 721
T F Espino-Rodrlguez , V Padron-Robaina
A review of outsourcing from the resourcebased view of the firm
International Journal of Management Reviews , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 70 Posted: 2006
Crossref
O Feyitimi , Nasieku , W Muturi
Relationship between outsourcing accounting tasks and financial performance of small and medium enterprises in Nigeria. Strategic relatedness factors using the partial least square approach
European Journal of Business Economics and Accounting , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 51 - 66 Posted: 2016
T Geda
The role of internal audit practice to promote good governance in public institution of Ethiopia: The case of Jimina Zone
Global Journal of management and Business Research , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 40 - 56 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
303
ABSTRACT VIEWS
842
RANK
229,218
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies