Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carbon emissions and abnormal cash holdings

Amin, A., Hossain, A., & Masum, A. (2024). Carbon emissions and abnormal cash holdings. Accounting & Finance.

53 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2021 Last revised: 8 Mar 2024

Abu S. Amin

Central Michigan University - Department of Finance and Law

Ashrafee T Hossain

Memorial University of Newfoundland (MUN) - Faculty of Business Administration

Abdullah-Al Masum

Johnson C. Smith University

Date Written: March 6, 2024

Abstract

We find that companies that emit high levels of carbon tend to have lower abnormal cash holdings. We have run a battery of endogeneity tests to ensure the robustness of our findings. Our further analysis revealed that weaker internal governance, higher information asymmetry, and CEO overconfidence contribute to the heterogeneity of the results. Additionally, we notice that polluting firms prefer to spend more on capital investments while allocating less toward dividends and R&D activities. Our results are consistent with agency theory, indicating that managerial preference for suboptimal investment and/or avoidance of external disciplining might contribute to lower abnormal cash holdings.

Keywords: abnormal cash holdings; carbon emissions; agency theory

JEL Classification: G32; Q54

Suggested Citation:

Amin, Abu S. and Hossain, Ashrafee T and Masum, Abdullah Al, Carbon emissions and abnormal cash holdings (March 6, 2024). Amin, A., Hossain, A., & Masum, A. (2024). Carbon emissions and abnormal cash holdings. Accounting & Finance., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3790877 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3790877
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
118 References
F Abdi , A Ranaldo
A simple estimation of bid-ask spreads from daily close, high, and low prices
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 12 , p. 4437 - 4480 Posted: 2017
V Acharya , S A Davydenko , I A Strebulaev
Cash holdings and credit risk
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 , issue 12 , p. 3572 - 3609 Posted: 2012
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
P Akey , I Appel
Environmental externalities of activism Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,629
RANK
274,044
118 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies