Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Natural Disasters, Risk Salience, and Corporate ESG Disclosure

43 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2021

Qiping Huang

University of Dayton

Yongjia Li

Boise State University - College of Business and Economics, Department of Finance

Meimei Lin

Georgia Southern University

Garrett McBrayer

Boise State University

Date Written: December 31, 2020

Abstract

We examine how natural disasters affect the corporate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosure policies of firms located close to disaster areas. We study firms located in counties neighboring those affected by natural disasters and find that, on average, these firms increase their ESG disclosure transparency over the period subsequent to the disaster. Given that our sample firms are located outside of the area directly affected by the disaster, the changes in disclosure transparency after the disaster are consistent with managers increasing their preference for transparency as their risk salience increases. Further, we find that, though the disaster may be environmental by nature, nearby firms increase their social and governance disclosures in addition to their environmental disclosures. To investigate whether or not the increased transparency is a rational response to the disaster, we explore the costs of capital for the firms in our sample to study what impacts, if any, the increased transparency engenders for the firm. We find that increases in ESG disclosure are associated with reductions in the cost of debt after the disaster consistent with the notion that markets find the increased transparency to be value relevant.

Keywords: natural disasters, corporate social responsibility, disclosure, cost of capital

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Qiping and Li, Yongjia and Lin, Meimei and McBrayer, Garrett, Natural Disasters, Risk Salience, and Corporate ESG Disclosure (December 31, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3790821 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3790821
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
S Al-Tuwaijri , T Christensen , K Hughes
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: A simultaneous equations approach. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 29 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M Burke , S M Hsiang , E Miguel
Global non-linear effect of temperature on economic production
Nature , volume 527 , p. 235 - 239 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R Cazier , R Pfeiffer
10-K disclosure repetition and managerial reporting incentives
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 2 , p. 107 - 131 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Spatial Hazard Events and Losses Database for the United States
CEMHS Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
604
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,177
RANK
102,328
19 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies