Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
PaperThrough the Grapevine: The Effect of CFO Network Centrality on Financial Reporting Quality

Huang, H. & Wang, C. (2020) CFO network centrality and financial reporting quality. China Accounting and Finance Review, 22 (2), 1-34.

46 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2021

Henry He Huang

Yeshiva University - Department of Accounting

Chong Wang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Date Written: January 01, 2020

Abstract

Being centrally positioned within a network affords easier access to information and resources, and also entails a higher reputation cost. However, network centrality can also facilitate the transfer of poor accounting practices and can lead to weak governance. We find that firms with CFOs who enjoy higher levels of network centrality have lower discretionary accounting accruals and a lower likelihood of restating their financial statements or engaging in accounting frauds. These firms also have a lower likelihood of internal control weakness and a higher level of accounting conservatism. Further analyses indicate that high-centrality CFOs are better at handling complex accounting issues such as revenue recognition, and the positive effect of CFO network centrality on accounting quality is more pronounced for firms with high litigation risk. Using the propensity score matching technique and changes analysis, we also provide evidence that our results are unlikely to be endogenously driven by firm characteristics. Overall, our evidence is consistent with CFOs using their central positions in the network to access information and resources to improve the quality of financial reporting and to protect their personal reputations.

Keywords: CFO network, financial reporting quality, earnings management, internal control quality, restatement

JEL Classification: G30 G41

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Henry and Wang, Chong, PaperThrough the Grapevine: The Effect of CFO Network Centrality on Financial Reporting Quality (January 01, 2020). Huang, H. & Wang, C. (2020) CFO network centrality and financial reporting quality. China Accounting and Finance Review, 22 (2), 1-34., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3790582
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
756
RANK
487,089
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies