Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Level of Greenwashing and Cost of Equity Capital

Posted: 25 Mar 2021

Amna Chalwati

Saint Mary's University; Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Agnes Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; University of Oklahama

Sadok El Ghoul

University of Alberta - Campus Saint-Jean

Samir Trabelsi

Brock University - Accounting

Date Written: February 23, 2021

Abstract

Under increased pressure to report positive environmental performance, some firms engage in greenwashing to depict a false positive image of their environmental impact. This study examines the impact of greenwashing on the cost of equity capital. Using a sample of 6,102 US firms, we find that firms engaging in greenwashing exhibit higher equity financing. A one-standard deviation increase in greenwashing leads to the firms’ equity premium to increase, on average, by 13 basis points. The results still hold after controlling for multiple risk factors in our main regression model and performing additional tests, which aim to control for correlated omitted variables and endogeneity concerns. We contribute to the current controversy on whether or not investors see through greenwashing and whether this type of selective disclosure is priced or not. This examination is important as it sheds light on how the market values greenwashing, and furthermore, there is yet little consensus on how to measure and identify greenwashing. Our study complements prior research that highlights the importance of social performance for firm valuation and access to external investment, and suggests that greenwashing is also important to firms, as it has the power to explain a firm’s cost of equity beyond other risk factors.

Keywords: Greenwashing; cost of capital; selective disclosure

JEL Classification: D82; G32; G34; M14; L15

Suggested Citation:

Chalwati, Amna and Chalwati, Amna and Cheng, Agnes and El Ghoul, Sadok and Trabelsi, Samir, The Level of Greenwashing and Cost of Equity Capital (February 23, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3791513
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,032
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies