Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Unintended Consequences of Social Networks: The Impact of Board Connectedness on Audit Pricing

60 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2021 Last revised: 2 Jun 2023

Zhangfan Cao

University of Nottingham, Ningbo - University of Nottingham Ningbo China

Dien Giau Bui

Yuan Ze University

Edward Lee

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Chih-Yung Lin

National Chiao Tung University

Date Written: February 23, 2021

Abstract

We examine whether the connections of directors affect the pricing of audit services. We find that firms with highly connected boards pay higher audit fees. This result is robust to numerous fixed effects, the exogenous variation in board connectedness due to directors’ death and retirement, an instrumental variable approach, and propensity score matching. We also identify two non-mutually exclusive channels through which board networks can increase audit fees. Relative to firms with poorly connected boards, firms with highly connected boards are more complex and demand higher quality audits that require greater effort by auditors which they pass on to the firms as higher fees. Moreover, we show that the effect is stronger in a more complex auditing environment and when the economic policy uncertainty is high. Collectively, this study facilitates the understanding of boards’ accountability and the consequential effect of their networks on the pricing of audit services.

Keywords: audit fees, board networks, audit effort, client risk, audit quality

JEL Classification: M41, M42, G34

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Zhangfan and Bui, Dien Giau and Lee, Edward and Lin, Chih-Yung, The Unintended Consequences of Social Networks: The Impact of Board Connectedness on Audit Pricing (February 23, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3791632
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 1 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
A Amin , L Chourou , S Kamal , M Malik , Y Zhao
It's who you know that counts: Board connectedness and CSR performance
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 64 Posted: 2020-05
C S Armstrong , D F Larcker
Discussion of "The impact of the options backdating scandal on shareholders" and "Taxes and the backdating of stock option exercise dates
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 50 - 58 Posted: 2009
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies on firm risk and cost of equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
800
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies