Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit Outsourcing Practices among Micro, Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (MSMEs) in Lagos State

European Journal of Business and Innovation Research, Vol.9, No.1, pp. 53-67 (2021)

15 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2021

Yisa Ayinla Adeniji

Yaba College of Technology - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: February 23, 2021

Abstract

Micro, small and medium scale enterprises (MSMEs) are recognized globally as the engine of growth in any development oriented economy. MSMEs significantly contribute to employment and the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in emerging economies. As a result of the adverse effect of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Government through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) inaugurated a N75 billion (Seventy-five billion naira) survival fund to revitalize and reinvigorate the MSMEs in the country. Consequently, to ensure effective utilization of the fund, the study investigated the impact of internal audit outsourcing on audit quality of MSMEs in Lagos State. The study adopted survey research designs, using purposive sampling technique to select 170 respondents among the registered MSMEs in Lagos State. A structured questionnaire was used to collect data, validated using Cronbach alpha with 85% response rate. The data was analyzed using descriptive and inferential statistics. Majority of the MSMEs, indicated that the extensively outsourced the function of ensuring compliance with established policies, plans and procedures. The study recommended that owners and managers of MSMEs should ensure that the internal auditors’ functions of their firms are outsourced to external audit firms in order to achieve audit independence and high audit quality at a reduced cost.

Keywords: Internal Audit Outsourcing, Micro, Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (MSMEs)

Suggested Citation:

Adeniji, Yisa Ayinla, Internal Audit Outsourcing Practices among Micro, Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (MSMEs) in Lagos State (February 23, 2021). European Journal of Business and Innovation Research, Vol.9, No.1, pp. 53-67 (2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3791476
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
L J Abbot , S Parkers , G Peters , D V Raina
Corporate governance, audit quality and the Sarbanes-Oxyle Act: Evidence from internal audit outsourcing
The Accounting review , volume 82 , issue 4 , p. 803 - 835 Posted: 2007
Crossref
S I Adeniyi , E Mieseigha
Audit tenure: An assessment of its effects on audit quality in Nigeria
International Journal of Academic research in Accounting , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 275 - 283 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Aije , K I Dandago
The extent of internal audit functions outsourcing by Nigerian deposit money banks
Procedia social and behavioral sciences , volume 164 , p. 222 - 229 Posted: 2014
A Al-Chahadah , M Soda , R Al-Omari
The impact of the internal audit on the quality of accounting information
International Journal of Economics and finance , volume 10 , issue 9 , p. 157 - 167 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
278
ABSTRACT VIEWS
846
RANK
250,789
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Health Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies