Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Factor Disclosures, Debt, and Corporate Governance

39 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2021

Abiodun S. Isiaka

University of Regina

Date Written: February 24, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of corporate governance on managerial discretion in reporting Risk Factor Disclosures (RFDs) and the subsequent effect on cost of debt in the public debt market. Managerial discretion in reporting RFD, termed Abnormal Risk Factor Disclosure (ARFD), is measured as the residual from the regression of RFDs on its determinants. To examine the effect of strong versus weak corporate governance on cost of debt, this study focuses on firms that pay a price for perceived higher risk, i.e., firms with Positive Abnormal Risk Factor Disclosure (PARFD) firms. I expect the presence of strong corporate governance will mitigate the expected higher cost of debt for these firms. Cost of debt is measured using S&P debt issuer rating (RATING) while corporate governance (GOV) is measured as the composite score of three corporate governance measures (Independent Directors – IND, Expert Directors – EXPERT, and Board Maturity – BMAT). The results reveal positive associations between GOV and ARFD which is consistent with the expectation that corporate governance will promote more transparent reporting. However, there is no cost of debt mitigating effect for riskier firms (PARFD) with strong corporate governance. As expected, riskier firms (PARFD) with weak corporate governance have higher cost of debt. The findings are useful to regulators in setting mandatory disclosure requirements and to management in implementing corporate governance structures in the organization.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Risk Factor Disclosures, Public Debt

Suggested Citation:

Isiaka, Abiodun, Risk Factor Disclosures, Debt, and Corporate Governance (February 24, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3792357 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3792357
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
458
RANK
724,439
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies