Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Cost Management: Evidence from Global Board Reforms

50 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2021

Thomas R. Loy

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Universität der Bundeswehr München

Sven Hartlieb

University of Innsbruck

Date Written: February 24, 2021

Abstract

Using data on the staggered adoption of board reforms across the globe, we study the effects of corporate governance on cost management. Boards discuss and decide on a wide range of issues with far-reaching implications for corporate cost behavior. We find that board reforms, which predominantly aim to increase board independence as well as establish board committees, restrict managerial opportunism in terms of cost behavior. While critics of board reform legislation note that increases in board independence and monitoring efficiency are rather “cosmetic”, we show that the staggered, worldwide adoption of board reforms results in a decrease in cost asymmetry between 50 and 75 percent, depending on the specification. Our results are robust to a range of modifications, additional tests and influential variables discussed in the still limited literature on international cost behavior.

Keywords: Board Reforms, Cost Stickiness, Cross-Country Study, Corporate Governance, Empire Building, Resource Adjustments

JEL Classification: G34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Loy, Thomas R. and Hartlieb, Sven, Corporate Governance and Cost Management: Evidence from Global Board Reforms (February 24, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3792152 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3792152
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple regression: Testing and interpreting interactions Posted: 1991
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S N Janakiraman
Are selling, general, and administrative costs "sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
K-H Bae , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami , X Zheng
Board reforms and dividend policy: International evidence Posted: 2020
R D Banker , D Byzalov
Asymmetric cost behavior
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 43 - 79 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,236
RANK
232,476
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies