Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SEC Workload, IPO Filing Reviews, and IPO Pricing

55 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2021 Last revised: 27 Oct 2021

Gerrit Köchling

Ilmenau University of Technology

Philipp Schmidtke

Technical University of Dortmund

Peter N. Posch

TU Dortmund University

Date Written: February 26, 2021

Abstract

We analyze the interaction between high workload of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) staff and the information production stimulated by their review process of initial public offerings (IPOs). We find that high workload is associated with more general comments in the first letter, with fewer overall comments for later letters, and that the SEC answers quicker while being busy. Using a measure of initial SEC concerns based on comment counts, we reinforce the empirical evidence on the relationship between the IPO filing review and (downward) offer price revisions. However, this correlation disappears for IPOs, where the filing review is conducted under a high workload. Consistent with theories on investor compensation and information asymmetry, we find underpricing to be significantly larger for these IPOs.

Keywords: Initial Public Offering, SEC, Workload, Stress, Comment Letter, Price Revision, Review Process, Information Production

JEL Classification: G18, G14, G41, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Köchling, Gerrit and Schmidtke, Philipp and Posch, Peter N., SEC Workload, IPO Filing Reviews, and IPO Pricing (February 26, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3793477 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3793477
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
S Agarwal , S Gupta , R D Israelsen
Public and Private Information: Firm Disclosure, SEC Letters, and the JOBS Act
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2017
A B Bakker , E Demerouti
Job Demands-Resources Theory
Wellbeing , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2014
B M Barber , T Odean
All That Glitters: The Effect of Attention and News on the Buying Behavior of Individual and Institutional Investors
Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 785 - 818 Posted: 2008
A Ben-Rephael , Z Da , R D Israelsen
It depends on where you search: Institutional investor attention and underreaction to news
Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 9 , p. 3009 - 3047 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
326
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,650
RANK
212,316
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies