Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why is Corporate Virtue in the Eye of the Beholder? The Case of ESG Ratings

The Accounting Review, https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2019-0506

64 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2021 Last revised: 19 Apr 2021

Dane M. Christensen

University of Oregon

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Anywhere (Siko) Sikochi

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Date Written: February 26, 2021

Abstract

Despite the rising use of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) ratings, there is substantial disagreement across rating agencies regarding what rating to give to individual firms. As what drives this disagreement is unclear, we examine whether a firm’s ESG disclosure helps explain some of this disagreement. We predict and find that greater ESG disclosure actually leads to greater ESG rating disagreement. These findings hold using firm fixed effects, and using a difference-in-differences design with mandatory ESG disclosure shocks. We also find that raters disagree more about ESG outcome metrics than input metrics (policies), and that disclosure appears to amplify disagreement more for outcomes. Lastly, we examine consequences of ESG disagreement and find that greater ESG disagreement is associated with higher return volatility, larger absolute price movements, and a lower likelihood of issuing external financing. Overall, our findings highlight that ESG disclosure generally exacerbates ESG rating disagreement rather than resolving it.

Keywords: ESG Ratings, Rating Agency Disagreement, ESG Disclosure, Corporate Social Responsibility, Sustainability

JEL Classification: G24, M14, M41, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Dane M. and Serafeim, George and Sikochi, Anywhere, Why is Corporate Virtue in the Eye of the Beholder? The Case of ESG Ratings (February 26, 2021). The Accounting Review, https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2019-0506, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3793804
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
M A Delmas , V C Burbano
The drivers of greenwashing
California Management Review , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 64 - 87 Posted: 2011
Crossref
W N Espeland , M L Stevens
Commensuration as a social process
Annual Review of Sociology , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 313 - 343 Posted: 1998
Crossref
A Ferrell , H Liang , L Renneboog
Socially responsible firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 122 , issue 3 , p. 585 - 606 Posted: 2016
Crossref
M Gilbert
The rising cost of investing responsibly. Bloomberg Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
11,692
ABSTRACT VIEWS
29,446
RANK
998
277 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies