Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Consequences of Operating Lease Recognition

Posted: 26 Feb 2021 Last revised: 11 Nov 2022

Mark (Shuai) Ma

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Wayne B. Thomas

University of Oklahoma

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 25, 2021

Abstract

The Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02 (ASU 2016-02) generated considerable debate between managers and standard setters. The purpose of our study is to understand the economic consequences of ASU 2016-02 on lessee firms and how its issuance and implementation affected use of operating leases, manager’ investment behavior, reported firm performance, and various stakeholders. We find evidence that after issuance of ASU 2016-02, managers decreased their use of long-term operating leases and increased their use of capital expenditures. However, we find no evidence that the change in leasing behavior leads to a decrease in reported firm performance or negative consequences to the firms’ stakeholders. Our study adds to the literature on the real impacts of accounting standards on managers’ investment behavior and economic consequences for lessee firms and their stakeholders.

Keywords: Leases, recognition versus disclosure, economic consequences, information quality

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Mark (Shuai) and Thomas, Wayne B., Economic Consequences of Operating Lease Recognition (February 25, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3793241 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3793241
 Not Available for Download
0 References
1 Citations
Paula Hill , Gerald J. Lobo , Shuo Wang
The Implementation of US GAAP Update 2016-02
35 Pages · Posted: 1 Apr 2021 · Downloads: 84
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,443
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies