Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Internal Auditors of Pharmaceutical Quality Systems Competence Improving

EUREKA: Health Sciences, (1), 94–100. doi: https://doi.org/10.21303/2504-5679.2021.001625

7 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2021

Viacheslav Lebedynets

National University of Pharmacy

Tetiana Karamavrova

National University of Pharmacy

Date Written: January 30, 2021

Abstract

The importance of internal audits for the pharmaceutical company, which is indicated in the guidelines for good practices in pharmacy (in particular, GMP, GDP).

The issue of selection, training, grading, certification and continuous improvement of the auditor’s competence at pharmaceutical companies are relevant and important both for domestic ones, and for foreign enterprises.

The aim of the study was to determine the competence of the pharmacy quality system internal auditors’ and the areas of its development.

Materials and methods. The object of the study was the competence of internal auditors of pharmaceutical quality systems. Empirical and theoretical research methods were used, in particular the method of comparative analysis of scientific literature in the field of research, the method of structural and logical modeling. The information basis was the provisions of regulations and materials published in the open professional scientific literature.

Results. The competence of quality management system auditors in general and pharmaceutical quality system in particular consists of personal qualities, professional knowledge and skills. The ISO 19011 standard highlights the importance of evaluating and continuous development of auditors’ competence. Such an assessment should take into account the needs of the audit program and its objectives. Areas of development of auditors' competence should be determined by the specifics of industry activities. This provision of the standard should be considered relevant for pharmaceutical companies.

Conclusions. We studied the requirements for the competence of QMS internal auditors of international and industry standards. A review of the regulatory framework showed a lack of information on the chosen area of the research. Defined requirements for the competence of the PQM audits staff assists the selection of specialists to the audit team so that the overall competence of the audit team is sufficient to achieve the objectives of the audit.

Keywords: internal audit, auditor, quality management system, pharmaceutical quality system, ISO 9001, ISO 19011, pharmaceutical company, auditor competence

Suggested Citation:

Lebedynets, Viacheslav and Karamavrova, Tetiana, The Internal Auditors of Pharmaceutical Quality Systems Competence Improving (January 30, 2021). EUREKA: Health Sciences, (1), 94–100. doi: https://doi.org/10.21303/2504-5679.2021.001625, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3794219
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Postanova KMU No. 929. 30.11
Pro zatverdzhennia Litsenziinykh umov provadzhennia hospodarskoi diialnosti z vyrobnytstva likarskykh zasobiv, optovoi ta rozdribnoi torhivli likarskymy zasobamy, importu likarskykh zasobiv (krim aktyvnykh farmatsevtychnykh inhrediientiv Posted: 2016
Likarski Zasoby , Nalezhna , Praktyka
Kyiv: MOZ Ukrainy Posted: 2020
ICH Q10 Pharmaceutical Quality System. European Medicines Agency Posted: 2008
Crossref
Systemy upravlinnia yakistiu. Vymohy (ISO 9001:2015, IDT): DSTU ISO , volume 9001 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
872
RANK
354,044
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Pharmacology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies