Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Minority Shareholders in Private Companies

Kale, Arati, and Devendra Kale. 2023. “The role of minority shareholders in private companies.” Delaware Journal of Corporate Law 47 (2): 211–72. DOI: https://djcl.org/portfolio/volume-47/

62 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2021 Last revised: 27 Oct 2023

Arati Kale

Providence College - School of Business

Devendra Kale

University of Rhode Island

Date Written: May 30, 2020

Abstract

We study the monitoring behavior of minority shareholders in private companies. We draw on a landmark judgment by Texas Supreme Court in June 2014 that significantly curtailed minority shareholders’ monitoring ability in private firms. The judgment provides a natural experiment to examine how the reduced monitoring ability impacted firm performance and to infer the monitoring behavior of minority shareholders. Using hand-collected data, we document evidence consistent with over monitoring by minority shareholders. Further, we document investments and leverage as potential channels of monitoring. We contribute to existing literature by providing evidence on the monitoring behavior of monitory shareholders in private firms. Importantly, our evidence also highlights the importance of market feedback mechanism; without a continuous feedback loop from the stock markets, minority shareholders seem to act in a manner that (unknowingly) hurts the firms they are invested in.

Keywords: Minority Shareholders, Private Companies, Corporate Governance, Closely-held Corporations

Suggested Citation:

Kale, Arati and Kale, Devendra, The Role of Minority Shareholders in Private Companies (May 30, 2020). Kale, Arati, and Devendra Kale. 2023. “The role of minority shareholders in private companies.” Delaware Journal of Corporate Law 47 (2): 211–72. DOI: https://djcl.org/portfolio/volume-47/, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3794069 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3794069
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Kate Jelinek , Devendra Kale , Anis Triki
New challenges at WHK LLP: A case for incorporating characteristics of private companies in classroom teaching
Journal of Accounting Education , volume 71 , p. 100964 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
690
RANK
588,270
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies