Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nexus between Investor Protection Environment and Financial Reporting Quality in the Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA)

31 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2021 Last revised: 29 Mar 2023

Isaac Marfo Oduro

University of Kwazulu-Natal

Samuel Agyei

University of Cape Coast

Mabutho Sibanda

University of KwaZulu-Natal - Faculty of Commerce & Management (Westville Campus)

Date Written: February 28, 2021

Abstract

This study investigates the effect of investor protection (IP) on the quality of financial reports produced by listed firms in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). The study used three indicators of IP (protection minority shareholders’interest -MinInt, regulation of stock exchange – RegSE, and legal right index – LRI) to examine their impact on various forms of financial reporting quality (accounting conservatism - AC, accrual quality - AQ, discretionary accrual-DA and aggregate financial reporting quality index-AFRQ). The study makes the following interesting revelations using system generalised method of moments (sys GMM) estimation technique employed on data from 60,815 firm-year observations across 13 stock exchanges in SSA from 2007 to 2017. The results depict that IP Index has a significant positive impact on all FRQ indicators, except for AC where a negative and significant impact of IP was observed. Meanwhile, IP components such as MinInt and RegSE depicted a negative and statistically significant relationship with the FRQ of firms in SSA. We conclude that individual IP components (MinInt, LRI and RegSE) do not achieve improved FRQ in SSA. Therefore, SSA countries may need holistic strengthening of investor protection environment in order to anhance FRQ.


Keywords: Investor Protection, Minority Interest protection, Regulation of Stock Exchange, Legal Interest Index, Financial reporting quality and Sub-Saharan Africa.

JEL Classification: M48

Suggested Citation:

Oduro, Isaac Marfo and Agyei, Samuel and Sibanda, Mabutho, Nexus between Investor Protection Environment and Financial Reporting Quality in the Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) (February 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3794835 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3794835
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
V Abedana , K Omane-Antwi , M Oppong , Abedana , Vn , , Omane-Antwi , Kb , M Oppong
Adoption of IFRS/IAS in Ghana: Impact on the quality of corporate financial reporting and related corporate tax burden
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 7 , issue 8 , p. 10 - 25 Posted: 2016
S K Agyei , E Marfo-Yiadom , A Ansong , A A A Idun
Corporate Tax Planning Incentives of Banks in Ghana
Journal of African Business , volume 21 , issue 4 , p. 544 - 559 Posted: 2020
B K Agyei-Mensah
Adoption of international financial reporting standards (IFRS) in Ghana and the quality of financial statement disclosures
International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 269 - 286 Posted: 2013
H N Ahmad
Internal Audit (IA) Effectiveness: Resource-Based and Institutional Perspectives
Australian Journal of Basic and Applied Sciences , volume 9 , issue 9 , p. 95 - 104 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
443
RANK
848,823
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies