Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Lower Timely Loss Recognition Reflect Managers' Favorable Private Information?

58 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2021 Last revised: 20 Jul 2021

Yi Cao

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Ivy Ruyun Feng

University of Wisconsin Madison-Wisconsin School of Business

Michael D. Kimbrough

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Date Written: February 28, 2021

Abstract

A manager may choose not to record the full extent of bad economic news reflected in negative stock returns (i.e. a manager may exercise low timely loss recognition) if she believes she has private information that justifies a more favorable outlook than the stock market’s pessimistic outlook. Researchers often interpret the resulting deviations between earnings and stock returns as distortions in earnings. However, if managers' more favorable view is correct, earnings will more closely reflect the changes in fundamental value even as they become less aligned with stock returns. In other words, greater deviations between earnings and returns may actually be consistent with more rather than less transparent earnings. We test this possibility using a sample of firm years with negative annual returns. Using future returns as the proxy for the public revelation of managers’ favorable private information, we find that future returns offset current negative returns to a greater extent when managers exercise lower levels of timely loss recognition. Equivalently, we document a negative association between future returns and the portion of implied losses in current negative returns that managers do not recognize. This negative association is stronger when it is more likely that managers have private information. The association is also stronger when managers face higher disclosure costs that prevent full disclosure of their favorable private information. We also find that only a relatively small portion of unrecognized implied losses is recognized in earnings during the subsequent three years. These findings indicate that the traditional explanation for misalignments between earnings and negative stock returns as being due to delayed recognition of economic losses is only partial. Such misalignments are also due to managers’ use of appropriate discretion to include favorable private information in earnings.

Keywords: timely loss recognition; private information; management discretion

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Yi and Feng, Ivy Ruyun and Kimbrough, Michael D., Does Lower Timely Loss Recognition Reflect Managers' Favorable Private Information? (February 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3794690 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3794690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
Crossref
V Agarwal , W Jiang , Y Tang , B Yang
Uncovering hedge fund skill from the portfolio holdings they hide
The Journal of Finance , volume 68 , issue 2 , p. 739 - 783 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R Ball
Infrastructure requirements for an economically efficient system of public financial reporting and disclosure
Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services , p. 127 - 69 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball , P Easton
Dissecting earnings timeliness
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , p. 1099 - 1132 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,195
RANK
409,437
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies