Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Intelligent Manufacturing Affects Enterprise Innovation? The Mediating Role of Organizational Learning

Posted: 1 Mar 2021

Jie Yang

Wenzhou Business College

Xiaojing Liu

Shaoxing University

Limeng Ying

Wenzhou Business College

Menghao Li

Wenzhou Business College

Lipeng Sun

Wenzhou Business College

Pishi Xiu

Wenzhou Business College

Date Written: May 20, 2020

Abstract

Intelligent manufacturing is driven by innovation, and it is also the facilitator and activator of innovation. Yang et al. (2020) find that intelligent manufacturing has a significant promoting effect on enterprise innovation, but the effect mechanism is still a black box to be opened. In terms of technology potential, intelligent manufacturing promotes enterprise innovation through digital-enabled knowledge absorptive capability, networked-enabled knowledge recombination capability, and intelligent-enabled knowledge creation capability, but this role cannot be separated from the support of organizational learning. In order to investigate the role of organizational learning in intelligent manufacturing and enterprise innovation, this study uses the public data of listed enterprises in China's manufacturing industry to conduct research using continuous time difference-in-differences method. The results show that intelligent manufacturing can promote both innovation input and innovation output of enterprises. Further mechanism research from the perspective of organizational learning, finds that intelligent manufacturing promotes organizational learning by improving organizational learning environment, learner quality and organizational learning investment, and thus promotes enterprise innovation.

Keywords: Intelligent manufacturing; Organizational learning; Enterprise innovation; Labor investment efficiency; Knowledge management

JEL Classification: M15; M21

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Jie and Liu, Xiaojing and Ying, Limeng and Li, Menghao and Sun, Lipeng and Xiu, Pishi, How Does Intelligent Manufacturing Affects Enterprise Innovation? The Mediating Role of Organizational Learning (May 20, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3794280 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3794280
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
450
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies