Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessment the Internal Control System of Banks

16 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2021

Tim Sovaniski

University of Primorska

Date Written: February 12, 2021

Abstract

This research attempt to explore to determine and investigate the main roles of auditing in corporate governance around the world especially in Slovenia, A large number of studies concerned with auditing and corporate governance have been conducted using US and UK data.

The objective of this research is to contribute to understanding the auditing and roles of auditing in corporate governance. Determine the nature of the Audit Committee and the dimensions of their role in promoting corporate governance and implementation mechanisms.

The study recommended that the role of corporate governance must be adopted in all organizations in Slovenia.

Keywords: Internal Control System, COSO Framework, Banks

Suggested Citation:

Sovaniski, Tim, Assessment the Internal Control System of Banks (February 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3794432 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3794432
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Al-Nasrawi , A Salam , Thabit , H Thabit
The Influence of the Environmental Factors on the Adoption of the International Accounting System IAS/IFRS: Case of Iraq
Finance and Auditing Studies , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 66 - 85 Posted: 2020
Crossref
A Amudo , L Inanga
Evaluation of Internal Control Systems: A Case Study from Uganda
International Research Journal of Finance and Economics Posted: 2009
Alvin A Arens , Randal J Elder , Mark S Beasley
Auditing and Assurance Services Posted: 2012
Ayagre
The Effectiveness of Internal Control Systems of Banks: The Case of Ghanaian Banks
International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting , volume 4 , issue 2 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,629
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,310
RANK
25,615
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies