Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Generalist CEOs and Audit Pricing

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2021-132

AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2021 Last revised: 3 Dec 2021

Zhiming Ma

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Rencheng Wang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Kaitang Zhou

Soochow University - Business School

Date Written: February 6, 2021

Abstract

We analyze the consequences of a firm hiring a generalist CEO in terms of the audit fees paid by the firm. We find that audit fees of clients with generalist CEOs are higher than those of clients with specialist CEOs. This relation is robust to considering managerial ability, other CEO characteristics, various fixed effects, instrumental variables, and change analyses. We further show that fee differences are larger for firms with weaker monitoring and higher corporate litigation risks. Through path analysis, we find that both client business risk and misreporting risk contribute to the fee difference. Finally, we find that auditors are more likely to issue going-concern opinions to clients with generalist CEOs. Our study should be of interest to auditing standard setters who link management operating styles to audit risk. We shed light on how management operating styles associated with the CEOs’ general or specialized skills affect audit pricing.

Keywords: generalist CEOs; managerial skills, audit risk; agency problem

JEL Classification: M41; M42

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Zhiming and Wang, Rencheng and Zhou, Kaitang, Generalist CEOs and Audit Pricing (February 6, 2021). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2021-132, AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3795167 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3795167
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings Quality in UK Private Firms: Comparative Loss Recognition Timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
R Ball
Infrastructure requirements for an economically efficient system of public financial reporting and disclosure
Brookings-Wharton papers on financial services , volume 2001 , issue 1 , p. 127 - 169 Posted: 2001
G S Becker
Investment in human capital: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Political Economy , volume 70 , issue 5 , p. 9 - 49 Posted: 1962
T B Bell , W R Landsman , D A Shackelford
Auditors' perceived business risk and audit fees: Analysis and evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 43
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
399
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,235
RANK
169,080
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies