Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Mixed-Ownership Reform Improve SOEs’ Innovation? Evidence from State Ownership

China Economic Review, Vol. 61 (2020)

22 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2021 Last revised: 12 Apr 2021

Xiaoqian Zhang

Zhejiang University - College of Economics

Date Written: April 3, 2018

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of the ongoing mixed-ownership reform on the innovation activities of SOEs in China. We find that the reform improves SOE’s innovation, and the impact is heterogeneous, by exploring in different industries and different regions with the influence of macroeconomic environment. This effect is stronger for SOEs in monopoly industries and eastern developed region. As a new form of state-sector reform, this mixed-ownership reform happens not only in SOEs like previous privatization, but also in a reverse direction. We also find its positive impact of improving the innovation for POEs being mix-reformed. To deal with endogeneity concerns, PSM, DiD and IV estimations are used. We also introduce highway as an instrumental variable, All the results in the 2SLS estimations are robust. Additional tests help isolate the effect of intervention from explanations of macro-economic effects, including house price, private employees, credit and equity finance.

Keywords: Innovation; Propensity score matching; Difference-in-differences approach; China reform

JEL Classification: K23, G15, G32

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Xiaoqian, Does Mixed-Ownership Reform Improve SOEs’ Innovation? Evidence from State Ownership (April 3, 2018). China Economic Review, Vol. 61 (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3796766
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 1 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
Crossref
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
Crossref
D B Audretsch , M P Feldman
R&D spillovers and the geography of innovation and production
American Economic Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 630 - 640 Posted: 1996
N Barberis , A Mukherjee , B Wang
Prospect theory and stock returns: An empirical test
Review of Financial Studies , volume 29 , issue 11 , p. 3068 - 3107 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
533
RANK
735,901
14 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies