Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Minority Investor Protection Mechanisms and Agency Costs: An Empirical Study Using the World Bank-Developed Approach

20 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2021

Hoang N. Pham

Victoria University

Cong Minh Nguyen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 3, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the impacts of minority investor protection mechanisms on agency costs in Vietnam. All relevant indicators of minority investor protection developed by the World Bank are employed with a panel data sample of 135 Vietnamese listed firms during the period from 2014-2018. It is found that the following mechanisms are effective in mitigating agency costs and hence agency problems at the firm level: i) extent of disclosure; ii) extent of director liability; iii) ease of shareholder suit; iv) shareholders’ rights in major corporate decisions; and v) corporate transparency. Interestingly, it is found that the board independence and controlling government shareholder do not play significant roles in addressing agency problems. To the best of the authors’ knowledge, this is one of the first attempts at testing for the impact of minority investor protection mechanisms developed by the World Bank on agency costs at the firm level. This study also provides policy implications for selecting effective mechanisms to mitigate agency conflicts between controlling shareholders and minority investors in order to promote the financial performance of the firm in an Asian emerging market.


Keywords: Minority investors, Controlling shareholders, Agency costs, Corporate governance mechanisms

JEL Classification: D22, G34, G41

Suggested Citation:

Pham, Hoang and Nguyen, Cong Minh, Minority Investor Protection Mechanisms and Agency Costs: An Empirical Study Using the World Bank-Developed Approach (March 3, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3796571 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3796571
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Firm Performance and Mechanisms to Control Agency Problems between Managers and Shareholders
Journal of Financial & Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
Crossref
J S Ang , R A Cole , J W Lin
Agency costs and ownership structure
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A A Berle , G C Means
The Modern Corporation and Private Property Posted: 1932
S Bhagat , B Bolton , R Romano
The effect of corporate governance on performance
Corporate Governance: A Synthesis of Theory , Research, and Practice , p. 97 - 122 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,118
RANK
475,518
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies