Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Weight on Earnings in Incentive Contracting: Dynamic Response or Status Quo?

57 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2021

Katharine D. Drake

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting

Melissa Martin

University of Illinois at Chicago

Date Written: February 28, 2021

Abstract

As firms evolve, the tasks required to generate firm value change, as does the ability of earnings to reflect changes in that value. To the extent earnings differentially captures managers’ effort toward desire tasks, contracting theory suggests its role in incentive pay should also change. However, anecdotal evidence suggests boards often fail to alter the weights on earnings in response to changes in the firm over time, relying instead on the status quo. In this study, we use a large longitudinal sample research design to investigate whether and how boards alter the weight on earnings in bonus contracts as its contracting usefulness changes over time. Our results suggest that although some contract evolution occurs, it often lacks timeliness. We find that boards often rely on contracting decisions made in prior periods, suggesting evidence of the status quo bias. Consistent with the status quo bias affecting board decisions, we document that process accountability mitigates a lack of concurrent contract evolution with shifts in firm evolution. Finally, we show that firms trade off earnings for other more idiosyncratic performance measures, suggesting alternate measures incrementally inform manager effort in early and late stages of firm development.

Keywords: Executive compensation, bonus compensation, firm life cycle, dynamic agency

JEL Classification: J33, M12, M2

Suggested Citation:

Drake, Katharine D. and Martin, Melissa, The Weight on Earnings in Incentive Contracting: Dynamic Response or Status Quo? (February 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3796180 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3796180
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
J Aharony , H Falk , N Yehuda
Corporate Life Cycle and the Relative ValueRelevance of Cash Flow versus Accrual Financial Information: Working paper, The Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Posted: 2006
K Ahmed , M Jinan
The association between research and development expenditure and firm performance: testing a life cycle hypothesis
International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation , volume 7 , issue 4 , p. 267 - 286 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Anderson , S Hyun , D Yu
Fundamental Analysis Conditioned on Firm Life Cycle: Working paper Posted: 2017
J H Anthony , K Ramesh
Association between accounting performance measures and stock prices: A test of the life cycle hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , issue 2-3 , p. 203 - 227 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
885
RANK
434,412
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies