Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The dark side of CEO social capital: Evidence from real earnings management and future operating performance

Journal of Corporate Finance, forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcorpfin.2021.101920

Posted: 9 Mar 2021

Paul A. Griffin

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Hyun A. Hong

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management

Yun Liu

Claremont Colleges - Keck Graduate Institute

Jiwoo Ryou

West Virginia University

Date Written: March 3, 2021

Abstract

We examine the role of CEO social capital as an important driver of the widespread practice of real earnings management (REM). Using the number of social connections to outside executives and directors to measure CEO social capital, we first find that well-connected CEOs associate with higher levels and volatilities of REM. The positive relation between REM and CEO network size is stronger when the CEO connects with more informed and influential persons, and when a more severe misalignment of interests can occur. Second, we find a contagion of REM among well-connected CEOs in an industry. Third, the level of REM induced by a large CEO social network associates negatively with future operating performance. This result is consistent with social capital circulating REM-related information ex-ante and increasing the power and influence for the CEO to deviate from optimal operating policies ex-post. Social capital shields the well-connected executive in the takeover and labor markets despite possible suboptimal future operating performance. While the prior literature finds that CEO social capital reduces accrual earnings management, our findings suggest a dark side of CEO social capital: it induces excessive levels and volatilities of REM costly to the firm in the long-run while imposing relatively low personal risk on the top executive.

Keywords: Network size, CEO social capital, Real earnings management. Future operating performance

JEL Classification: G30, L14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Griffin, Paul A. and Hong, Hyun A. and Liu, Yun and Ryou, Jiwoo, The dark side of CEO social capital: Evidence from real earnings management and future operating performance (March 3, 2021). Journal of Corporate Finance, forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcorpfin.2021.101920, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3796631
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
578
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies