Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accruals quality and efficient investing: Cross-country evidence

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2021 Last revised: 16 Feb 2024

Seraina C. Anagnostopoulou

University of Piraeus, Department of Banking and Financial Management

Date Written: November 23, 2023

Abstract

This study examines whether the effect of firm-level financial reporting quality - measured in the form of the quality of accruals - on corporate investment efficiency differs across jurisdictions with different strengths of institutional and regulatory enforcement. Institutional enforcement effectiveness relates to operating in jurisdictions with lower vs. higher informational uncertainty about actual firm performance, and where institutions secure the correct function of markets, with limited concerns about the extraction of any unlawful benefits by insiders. This effectiveness should mitigate adverse selection and moral hazard concerns driving inefficient investment, in the way that firm-specific financial reporting quality has been shown to do within single-country settings. Using a sample from 25 countries, accruals quality is positively associated with efficient investing, regardless of any country-level institutional characteristics. This association becomes more pronounced when the country-level strength of institutional enforcement is weaker, consistent with firm-specific reporting quality increasing in importance when country level institutional enforcement worsens. This evidence indicates that, when the effectiveness of institutional enforcement in a country does not successfully alleviate information asymmetries or secure efficient monitoring of corporate insiders by capital providers, there is greater need for firm-specific accounting quality to perform this function and promote efficient firm-level investing.

Keywords: Accounting quality, Information asymmetry, Institutional enforcement, Investment efficiency, Over-investment, Under-investment

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G10, G18, G31

Suggested Citation:

Anagnostopoulou, Seraina C., Accruals quality and efficient investing: Cross-country evidence (November 23, 2023). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3796797 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3796797
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
B Al-Shattarat , K Hussainey , W Al-Shattarat
The impact of abnormal real earnings management to meet earnings benchmarks on future operating performance
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 81 Posted: 2022
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
287
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,249
RANK
242,713
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies