Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Ownership, Appointment of Independent Directors, and Firm Value: Evidence from Japanese Firms

59 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2021

Anwer S. Ahmed

Texas A&M University - Mays Business School

Takuya Iwasaki

Kansai University

Date Written: February 2021

Abstract

We investigate the effects of foreign ownership on a key monitoring mechanism, the appointment of independent directors, for a sample of Japanese firms after the Tokyo Stock Exchange passed rules requiring appointment of at least one independent director or an independent statutory auditor. We find that foreign ownership is significantly positively associated with the appointment of independent directors and firm value respectively. We also find, using path analysis, that foreign ownership affects firm value via the appointment of independent directors. In robustness tests, we also examine whether foreign ownership affects a monitoring outcome (earnings management). We find that foreign ownership is significantly negatively related to benchmark beating using both accrual and real earnings management. Overall, our evidence suggests that despite their smaller shareholdings, foreign investors enhance firm value through improving monitoring of managers.

Keywords: foreign ownership, corporate governance, independent directors, Japan

JEL Classification: G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ahmed, Anwer S. and Iwasaki, Takuya, Foreign Ownership, Appointment of Independent Directors, and Firm Value: Evidence from Japanese Firms (February 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3796226 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3796226
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
Crossref
C Ahmadjian
Foreign investors and corporate governance in Japan
Corporate Governance in Japan , p. 125 - 150 Posted: 2007
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
953
RANK
327,219
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies