Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Qualitative Characteristics of Non-GAAP Disclosures and Non-GAAP Earnings Quality

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2021

Han-Chung Chen

National Taipei University

Yen-Jung Lee

National Taiwan University

Sheng-Yi Lo

Feng Chia University

Yong Yu

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: March 5, 2021

Abstract

We examine how the qualitative characteristics of a non-GAAP earnings disclosure reveal the quality of the non-GAAP performance metric itself. We measure the qualitative aspects of the non-GAAP disclosure using an index of 12 hand-coded characteristics and presentation choices that provide context to non-GAAP disclosures. We find that more transparent qualitative information in non-GAAP disclosures is associated with more transitory non-GAAP exclusions and a lower likelihood that managers will aggressively exclude expenses in calculating non-GAAP earnings to meet or beat analysts’ forecasts. We also find that the association between non-GAAP exclusions and earnings announcement period returns is less negative for firms with more transparent qualitative information accompanying their non-GAAP disclosures. Overall, these results suggest that qualitative characteristics of non-GAAP disclosures convey useful information about the quality of non-GAAP earnings metrics.

Keywords: non-GAAP disclosures, qualitative characteristics, non-GAAP earnings, non-GAAP exclusions, earnings quality

JEL Classification: G14, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Han-Chung and Lee, Yen-Jung and Lo, Sheng-Yi and Yu, Yong, Qualitative Characteristics of Non-GAAP Disclosures and Non-GAAP Earnings Quality (March 5, 2021). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3798735
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Kristian D. Allee , Neil Bhattacharya , Ervin L. Black , Theodore E. Christensen
Pro Forma Disclosure and Investor Sophistication: External Validation of Experimental Evidence Using Archival Data
Pages: 39 Posted: 4 Jan 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Bentley , T Christensen , K Gee , B Whipple
Disentangling managers' and analysts' non-GAAP reporting
J. Account. Res , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 1039 - 1081 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Neil Bhattacharya , Ervin L. Black , Theodore E. Christensen , Chad Russell Larson
Assessing the Relative Informativeness and Permanence of Pro Forma Earnings and Gaap Operating Earnings
JAE Boston Conference October 2002 Pages: 51 Posted: 6 Jan 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
N Bhattacharya , E Black , T Christensen , R Mergenthaler
Empirical evidence on recent trends in pro forma reporting
Account. Horiz , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 43 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,595
RANK
202,787
8 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies