Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did the PCAOB’s 2009 Office Expansion Improve Audit Quality?

51 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2021 Last revised: 13 Sep 2022

James Justin Blann

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Tyler J. Kleppe

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Jonathan E. Shipman

University of Arkansas

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 28, 2022

Abstract

We investigate whether the PCAOB’s decision to expand the number and location of its inspection offices in 2009 improved the reliability of U.S. audits. We use a difference-in-differences empirical design to consider the impacts of the expansion on audit quality and find that audit quality significantly improved following the PCAOB’s expansion in markets where new offices opened relative to markets without an office opening. We find that the improvement in audit quality appears to be driven by auditors’ reaction to real changes in PCAOB oversight and that triennially inspected auditors appear to be impacted the most by this office expansion. Our findings provide new insights into the PCAOB’s operational decision making and suggest that the regulator’s additional investment in audit oversight was effective in improving audit quality.

Keywords: Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB); auditor oversight; audit quality

JEL Classification: M40; M41; M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Blann, James and Kleppe, Tyler J. and Shipman, Jonathan E., Did the PCAOB’s 2009 Office Expansion Improve Audit Quality? (June 28, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3798034 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3798034
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditor-client relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
J D Angrist , J Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection processpreliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,570
RANK
303,587
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies