Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholding Pattern and Its Impact on Corporate Performance

© 2020 IJRAR June 2020, Volume 7, Issue 2 www.ijrar.org (E-ISSN 2348-1269, P- ISSN 2349-5138)

7 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2021

Shubhi Agarwal

Chaudhary Charan Singh University

Date Written: Nov 8, 2019

Abstract

Corporate governance plays a vital role in establishing the relationship between shareholding patterns and corporate performance that ensures investment security. With this motivation in this paper, an empirical study has been conducted to examine the impact of institutional and non-institutional shareholding patterns on the associated corporate performance. This study focuses to examine the role of shareholding patterns on corporate performance. This study furnishes how shareholding pattern helps in eliminating agency cost in a sample of 30 firms selected from “National Stock Exchange” and “Bombay Stock Exchange” during the period 2007-19. This study uses the asset utilization ratio to measure agency costs. The independent variables in this study include Indian promoter, foreign promoter institutional ownership, non-institutional ownership, and remuneration structure. The result findings showed that foreign promoter, institutional, non-institutional ownership, and incentive payments to agents make a positive impact on the corporate performance and contribute towards the reduction of agency cost but on the other hand shares held for custodian against which deposits receipts have been issued and Indian promoter ownership make an insignificant impact on corporate performance

Keywords: Agency cost, corporate, governance, performance and shareholding pattern.

JEL Classification: G 30, G 34

Suggested Citation:

Agarwal, Shubhi, Shareholding Pattern and Its Impact on Corporate Performance (Nov 8, 2019). © 2020 IJRAR June 2020, Volume 7, Issue 2 www.ijrar.org (E-ISSN 2348-1269, P- ISSN 2349-5138) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3799990
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
G A Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 Posted: 1970
Crossref
A Barnea , R A Haugen , L W Senbet
Market Imperfections, Agency Problems, and Capital Structure: A Review
LA English , volume 10 , issue 3 Posted: 1981
Crossref
A A Berle , Jr , G C Means
The Modern Corporation and Private Property, the Macmillan Company Posted: 1932
L Charfeddine , A Elmarzougui
Institutional ownership and Firm performance: Evidence from France
The IUP Journal of Behavioral Finance , volume VII , issue 4 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
541
RANK
601,090
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies