Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Literature Review on the Relationship between Board Structure and Firm Performance

International Journal of Business Ethics in Developing Economies, 9 (2) 2020, 33-43; http://publishingindia.com/ijbede/

11 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2021

Shubhi Agarwal

Chaudhary Charan Singh University

Date Written: June 30, 2020

Abstract

Corporate governance plays a significant role in eliminating agency costs. Corporate boards have the main role of monitoring the management; they help in aligning the interests of principals and agents. Boards are responsible for care and diligence that brings financial control, so that profitability can be ensured in the corporate firms. This paper focuses on reviewing the literature on board structure extensively. This paper reviews many aspects of board structure, i.e. board size, board meeting frequency, board independence, board ownership and composition, board education, audit committee, and so on. Further, this paper furnishes the type of board structure that will contribute towards increasing firm performance, thereby helping in mitigating agency costs. This research study uses a descriptive research design. Random sampling is used while selecting different kinds of literature review of board structure. This study takes the 1991-2019 time period for reviewing of literature. The period is selected based on convenience sampling. The results depict that reasonable frequency of board meetings, the board size, independence of directors, well-educated board members, audit committee, board composition, and ownership make a positive impact on firm performance, thereby reducing agency costs.


Keywords: Agency Cost, Board Structure, Corporate Governance, Firm Performance

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Agarwal, Shubhi, Literature Review on the Relationship between Board Structure and Firm Performance (June 30, 2020). International Journal of Business Ethics in Developing Economies, 9 (2) 2020, 33-43; http://publishingindia.com/ijbede/ , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3799977
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
W K Adebiyi
Board composition and financial reporting quality of deposit money banks in Nigeria
International Journal of Innovative Finance and Economics Research , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 97 - 104 Posted: 2017
J Aduda , P Kiragu , J Ndwiga
The relationship between agency banking and financial performance of commercial banks in Kenya Posted: 2013
E O Akpan
Corporate board meetings and company performance: Empirical from Nigerian quoted companies
Global Journal of Commerce & Management Perspective , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 75 - 82 Posted: 2015
N A Amran
Corporate governance mechanisms and company performance: Evidence from Malaysia company
International Review of Business Research Papers , volume 7 , issue 6 , p. 101 - 114 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,330
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,698
RANK
34,683
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies