Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR in the Post Pandemic Era: The Dual Promise of ESG Investment and Investor Stewardship

Indian Law Review (2021)

29 Pages Posted: 3 May 2021

Rudresh Mandal

Independent; NALSAR University of Law

Ashwin Murthy

Independent

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

This paper locates its relevance in the post-coronavirus era. The business and legal fraternities have been provided an opportunity to re-examine the role of companies in society, at a time when supply chains are being dismantled and distrust in capitalism has increased. We argue that for companies to build sustainability into business practices (for CSR cannot just be a ‘check the box’ solution to social ills), the investment community – with necessary support from the regulators – must pressurise businesses to do so. We observe that the manner in which CSR is understood and implemented in India is insufficient, due to a myriad of factors including vested political interests. Thereafter, we highlight how market-driven measures such as ESG investing, uniform ESG reporting and an effective investor stewardship model can be the next pieces of the ‘desirable’ CSR puzzle in India.

Keywords: India, CSR, ESG Investing, ESG Reporting, Investor Stewardship, sustainability

Suggested Citation:

Mandal, Rudresh and Mandal, Rudresh and Murthy, Ashwin, CSR in the Post Pandemic Era: The Dual Promise of ESG Investment and Investor Stewardship (2021). Indian Law Review (2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3799994
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Elizabeth Kurucz
The Business Case for Corporate Social Responsibility
The Oxford Handbook of Corporate Social Responsibility , volume 83 , p. 85 - 92 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Shabana Carroll
Albert Hirschman
Exit, Voice and Loyalty , p. 21 - 27 Posted: 1970
Padmaparna Ghosh
Norway Govt fund sells its Vedanta stake' (The Mint , volume 7 Posted: 2007-11
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
301
ABSTRACT VIEWS
872
RANK
230,777
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies