Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of CSR on the Stock Returns of Indian Companies

38 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2021

M Jagadeesh

Christ (Deemed to be University)

Date Written: March 6, 2021

Abstract

Purpose- This study investigates the impact of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) on stock prices of Indian listed companies. The literature reviews show a strong contradictory of the relationship between CSR and stock prices which is still debatable. This study will tell whether there is a positive or negative or no correlation between CSR and stock price in Indian context.

Methodology- The research design used in this study was an experimental cross-sectional design. This study uses regression, correlation and hypothesis testing to find the relationship between corporate social responsibility and stock price and financial performance. The stock price and some financial measures like dividend, ROE and employee benefit are also taken to measure the financial performance which indirectly affects stock price and to measure CSR the CSR expenditure is taken.

Findings- This study will tell whether there is a positive or negative or no correlation between CSR and stock price in Indian context. This study is also used to suggest if the company are able to get enough returns from their CSR spending.

Originality/value- The primary contribution of this study is to present a valid and robust evidence of the relationship between CSR and stock price of India listed companies. The proper reason behind CSR spending’s and its impact.


Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Stock Price, ROE, CSR Expenditure

JEL Classification: G00, G01, G02, G10, G11, G14, G15, G20, G24, G28, G30, G31, G32

Suggested Citation:

Jagadeesh, M, Impact of CSR on the Stock Returns of Indian Companies (March 6, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3799134 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3799134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
J.-B Kim , Z Wang , L Zhang
CEO Overconfidence and Stock Price Crash Risk , volume 33 , p. 1720 - 1749 Posted: 2016
Crossref
M Friedman
The social responsibility of business is to increase its profits. The New York Times Magazine Posted: 1970-09
Crossref
I Demiralp , R D&apos;mello , F P Schlingemann , V Subramaniam
Are there monitoring benefits to institutional ownership? Evidence from seasoned equity offerings
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 17 , issue 5 , p. 1340 - 1359 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J C Hartzell , L T Starks
Institutional investors and executive compensation. The journal of finance , volume 58 , p. 2351 - 2374 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
578
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,638
RANK
108,263
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies