Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Virality

67 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2021 Last revised: 1 Jun 2022

Brett Campbell

Yale School of Management

Michael S. Drake

Brigham Young University - Marriott School

Jake Thornock

Brigham Young University

Brady J. Twedt

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 18, 2022

Abstract

We examine the determinants and market consequences associated with earnings announcements going viral on social media, a phenomenon we label “earnings virality.” Using a comprehensive panel of historical Twitter data, we find that the typical earnings announcement receives relatively little social media coverage, but others go viral on social media, quickly reaching the feeds of millions of people. We find that viral earnings announcements generally have Twitter content that is more extreme in tone and contains less unique content. Further, earnings virality is positively associated with revenue surprises, investor recognition, retail investor ownership, and retail investor trading around the announcement. Earnings virality appears to be detrimental to markets, as it coincides with lower market liquidity and slower price formation. Overall, our evidence suggests that user-driven dissemination through social media platforms, when amplified and taken to extreme levels, may be harmful to markets.

Keywords: Earnings Virality, Viral, Social media, Earnings announcements

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Campbell, Brett and Drake, Michael S. and Thornock, Jacob and Twedt, Brady J., Earnings Virality (May 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3800399 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3800399
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
J S Ang , C Hsu , D Tang , C Wu
The Role of Social Media in Corporate Governance
The Accounting Review Posted: 2020
J J Angel , L E Harris , C S Spatt
Equity trading in the 21st century: An update
The Quarterly Journal of Finance , volume 5 , issue 1 Posted: 2015
C Armstrong , J D Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
The evolution of empirical methods in accounting research and the growth of quasi-experiments Posted: 2021
M Baker , J Wurgler
Investor sentiment and the cross-section of stock returns
The journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 4 , p. 1645 - 1680 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
776
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,073
RANK
74,044
28 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies