Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real-time revenue and firm disclosure

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper

60 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2021 Last revised: 8 Feb 2022

Elizabeth Blankespoor

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business; University of Washington - Department of Accounting

Bradley E. Hendricks

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Kenan-Flagler Business School

Joseph D. Piotroski

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Christina Synn

American University

Date Written: February 1, 2022

Abstract

We examine firm disclosure choice when information is received on a real-time, continuous basis. We use transaction-level credit and debit card sales for a sample of retail firms to construct a weekly measure of abnormal revenue for each firm. We validate the informativeness of this abnormal real-time revenue information, confirming its positive correlation with abnormal returns, unexpected revenue realizations, and management revenue forecast news. Using revenue forecasts, we find that firms are less likely to disclose abnormally negative news early in the quarter. As the quarter progresses, firms reduce their withholding of negative news. These results are consistent with impending earnings announcements disciplining managers to provide negative news. This pattern of initial withholding and then disclosure exists primarily in firms with high analyst coverage, high institutional ownership, or high litigation risk. Finally, we find increased insider stock sales in weeks with abnormally negative news and no firm disclosure. Overall, our study provides evidence of the informativeness of real-time information and manager discretion in its release.

Keywords: real-time revenue, private information, management forecasts, disclosure dynamics

JEL Classification: G14, M41, M45, D82

Suggested Citation:

Blankespoor, Elizabeth and Hendricks, Bradley E. and Piotroski, Joseph D. and Synn, Christina, Real-time revenue and firm disclosure (February 1, 2022). Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3801086 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3801086
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
I Abramova , J E Core , A Sutherland
Institutional investor attention and firm disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2020
S Agarwal , W Qian , X Zou
Disaggregated Sales and Stock Returns
Management Science Posted: 2021
C Aghamolla , B J An
Voluntary disclosure with evolving news
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
691
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,784
RANK
86,048
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies