Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Study in Sustainability Reporting Practices of Indian Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises

Journal of Commerce & Accounting Research 10 (1) 2021, 67-76 http://publishingindia.com/jcar/

10 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2021

Amitava Mondal

Sidho-Kanho-Birsha University

Date Written: March 9, 2021

Abstract

The present study is undertaken to examine to what extent sustainability guidelines, national and international, are followed by the Indian SMEs. The main objective of this study is to examine the sustainability disclosure practices of Indian SMEs. For this purpose, 25 SMEs are considered which are listed in BSE SME and their annual reports for the year 2018-19 are examined. The present study indicates that sustainability issues are of the highest priority but still in their nascent stage particularly among the Indian SMEs. Based on content analysis, the study result shows that the overall disclosure level of sustainability issues is moderate. This pilot study provides an idea about the sustainability reporting practices of Indian Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. Despite some limitations, this is the first study that examines the extent of sustainability reporting practices voluntarily following national and international guidelines.

Keywords: Sustainability, Reporting, Content Analysis, SMEs, Sustainability Standard, Responsibility Reporting

Suggested Citation:

Mondal, Amitava, An Empirical Study in Sustainability Reporting Practices of Indian Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (March 9, 2021). Journal of Commerce & Accounting Research 10 (1) 2021, 67-76 http://publishingindia.com/jcar/, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3801133 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3801133
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
A Amran , S K Ooi
Sustainability reporting: Meeting stakeholders demand. Strategic Direction , volume 30 , p. 38 - 41 Posted: 2014
Crossref
C A Adams , G R Frost
Integrating sustainability reporting into management practices
Accounting Forum , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 288 - 302 Posted: 2008
Crossref
K Bachoo , T Rebecca , M Wilson
Firm value and quality of sustainability reporting in Australia
Australian Accounting Review , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 87 Posted: 2013
Crossref
J Elkington
Towards the sustainable corporation: WinWin-Win business strategies for sustainable development
California Management Review , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 90 - 100 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
357
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,027
RANK
191,550
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies