Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Real Consequences of Classification Shifting: Evidence from the Efficiency of Corporate Investment

European Accounting Review, forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2021 Last revised: 4 Apr 2023

Seraina C. Anagnostopoulou

University of Piraeus, Department of Banking and Financial Management

Kamran Malikov

University of Southampton

Date Written: April 3, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates the real consequences of classification shifting by examining its effect on corporate investment efficiency. The underlying expectation is that the ways of reporting different profit items within the income statement should increase information asymmetry between managers and capital providers regarding the level of core and, so, more likely repeatable firm performance. We anticipate that classification shifting will aggravate agency problems and distort managers’ own perceptions of their firms’ sustainable profitability, resulting in imperfect investment-related information sets for them, ultimately leading to inefficient investing. We find that classification shifting strongly and significantly decreases the responsiveness of investment to growth opportunities and is, thus, associated with less efficient investing. After investigating the economic mechanisms explaining this association, our results are more pronounced when other information and agency problem-related factors that should protect against inefficient investing are weaker, and also for firms whose managers have fewer opportunities to learn from peers, which could alleviate potential classification shifting-related distortion effects on managerial perceptions. Our study provides evidence on the adverse real consequences of classification shifting, a form of earnings management without any reversing effects for bottom-line future performance, with reference to a very important firm-level outcome; namely, efficient investing.


Online appendix available at http://ssrn.com/abstract=4089247.

Keywords: classification shifting, investment efficiency, over-investment, under-investment, earnings management, information asymmetry

JEL Classification: M40; M41, G10, G31

Suggested Citation:

Anagnostopoulou, Seraina C. and Malikov, Kamran, The Real Consequences of Classification Shifting: Evidence from the Efficiency of Corporate Investment (April 3, 2023). European Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3801959 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3801959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A B Abel
Optimal investment under uncertainty
The American Economic Review , volume 73 , issue 1 , p. 228 - 233 Posted: 1983
A Ali , P Zarowin
Permanent versus transitory components of annual earnings and estimation error in earnings response coefficients
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , issue 2-3 , p. 249 - 264 Posted: 1992
S C Anagnostopoulou , D Gounopoulos , K Malikov , H Pham
Earnings management by classification shifting and IPO survival
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 66 Posted: 2021
J Asker , J Farre-Mensa , A Ljungqvist
Comparing the investment behavior of public and private firms. Working paper Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
356
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,896
RANK
192,137
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies