Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Human Resource Accounting Disclosure: An Analysis on Dhaka Stock Exchange (DSE) Listed Financial Institutions

Posted: 22 Mar 2021

Mohammad Ali

Bangladesh University of Professionals

Date Written: March 12, 2021

Abstract

This paper aims to evaluate the human resource accounting disclosure (HRAD) practices of DSE listed financial institutions and analyse the impact of organizational attributes (service length, size, profitability, total number of employees and total number of pages) on HRAD in the annual reports. Total 90 annual reports have been taken as the sample size from 18 financial institutions for the period of 2014-2018. To determine the level of HRAD of each of the annual report, a dichotomous (0 and 1) score has been assigned on the disclosure items which are included in the adapted index. Descriptive statistics, correlation and multiple linear regression have been performed to analyse data and test hypotheses. The outcome reveals that the size of the company and the total number of pages have significant positive impact on the extent of HRAD whereas the total number of employees is found as an insignificant positive influential determinant. On the other hand, service length has significant and profitability has insignificant negative influence on the extent of HRAD. This study contributes to better understanding of the current state of HRAD of listed financial institutions of DSE and helps to determine the future strategy of disclosure for human resource accounting.

Keywords: Human resource, human resource accounting disclosure, organizational attributes, financial institutions and Bangladesh.

JEL Classification: O15,

Suggested Citation:

Ali, Mohammad, Determinants of Human Resource Accounting Disclosure: An Analysis on Dhaka Stock Exchange (DSE) Listed Financial Institutions (March 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3803306
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
298
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies