Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Structure and Monitoring by Local Owners

Applied Economics, Forthcoming

Posted: 22 Mar 2021 Last revised: 22 Mar 2021

Taylan Mavruk

University of Gothenburg

Stefan Sjögren

University of Gothenburg - Centre for Finance - School of Business, Economics and Law

Date Written: March 11, 2021

Abstract

We examine how owners’ portfolio diversification influences their firms’ financial decision-making and performance. We find that firms with high local ownership use less leverage, but firms with local ownership by locally biased owners use higher debt levels relative to firms with diversified local owners. Firms with high local ownership in urban regions use higher debt levels. In rural regions, firms with high locally biased ownership use higher debt levels relative to firms with diversified local ownership. Finally, although we find weak evidence that firms with high local ownership underperform the market, the underperformance is smaller in firms with high locally biased ownership. Thus, locally biased owners, not local owners with diversified portfolios, have an informed monitoring role in firms, and this effect seems to mitigate negative liquidity consequences. The separation of local owners into those with locally biased and those with diversified portfolios determines when and how local ownership can be used as a good proxy for informed investors.

Keywords: Capital structure, monitoring, local owners, firm performance.

JEL Classification: G3, G32.

Suggested Citation:

Mavruk, Taylan and Sjogren, Stefan, Capital Structure and Monitoring by Local Owners (March 11, 2021). Applied Economics, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3803163
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
303
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies