Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Market Feedback and Corporate Innovation

Posted: 15 Mar 2021

Mustafa Ahci

Erasmus Univeristy Rotterdam School of Management

Tim Martens

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Christoph J. Sextroh

Carl von Ossietzky University of Oldenburg; Tilburg University - Tilburg School of Economics and Management

Date Written: March 12, 2021

Abstract

We investigate the effect of capital market feedback on corporate investment in innovation. To identify changes in firms' behavior in response to capital market feedback, we exploit the launch of the USPTO's Public Patent Application Information Retrieval (PAIR) system that made internal information about the patent application process publicly available. Consistent with the existence of feedback, we document that market reactions to patent grants change after the launch of the PAIR system. More importantly, variation in feedback correlates with firm behavior and predicts future investment in innovation as captured by project continuation decisions, patent renewals, and the direction of future patent applications. Firms that facilitate capital market feedback by making a larger fraction of application information publicly available also produce more valuable innovations in the future. Taken together, our results indicate not only that corporate investment in innovation is affected by capital market feedback, but also that the feedback effect is more pronounced the more information about the innovation process is publicly available.

Keywords: Capital market feedback; Corporate innovation; Corporate investment; Disclosure; Managerial learning

JEL Classification: D83, O30

Suggested Citation:

Ahci, Mustafa and Martens, Tim and Sextroh, Christoph J., Capital Market Feedback and Corporate Innovation (March 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3803324
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
740
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies