Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Misreaction? Evidence from Cross-border Acquisitions.

35 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2021 Last revised: 12 Jan 2022

C. N. V. Krishnan

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Banking & Finance

Jialun Wu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 1, 2022

Abstract

Using a dataset of cross-border mergers and acquisitions (M&A) entailing U.S. acquirers over the period 1990-2013, we document detailed descriptive statistics and find that the operating efficiency of the acquirers decreases around the acquisition, and up to three years after. However, contrary to findings in some of the extant literature, the announcement-period acquirer abnormal stock-price return is not significantly associated with acquirer’s operating efficiency post-acquisition. Therefore, investors should be careful interpreting the announcement-period stock-price reaction in cross-border mergers and acquisitions as indicative of merger efficiency gains. We find that target nation’s religiosity and governance features are also not significantly associated with the acquirer’s operating efficiency post acquisition; however, the acquirer’s financial features and the target nation’s macroeconomic features are.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Cross-Border M&A, Merger Efficiency, Operating Efficiency, Abnormal Returns, Bootstrap-DEA, Difference-in-Difference Analysis, Misreaction

JEL Classification: G14

Suggested Citation:

Krishnan, C. N. V. and Wu, Jialun, Market Misreaction? Evidence from Cross-border Acquisitions. (January 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3804781 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3804781
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
E Aggelopoulos , A Georgopoulos
Bank branch efficiency under environmental change: A bootstrap DEA on monthly profit and loss accounting statements of Greek retail branches
European Journal of Operational Research , volume 261 , issue 3 , p. 1170 - 1188 Posted: 2017
K Ahern
Bargaining power and industry dependence in mergers
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 103 , issue 3 , p. 530 - 550 Posted: 2012
K Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2012
R Albuquerque , L Brandao-Marques , M Ferreira , P Matos
International Corporate Governance Spillovers: Evidence from Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions
Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 738 - 770 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,129
RANK
464,511
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies