Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interlocked Audit Partners and Board Directors: An Examination of Financial Reporting Quality

82 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2021

Valeria Volpentesta

University of Lausanne - HEC Lausanne - Department of Accounting and Control

Paul André

University of Bristol Business School

Date Written: March 16, 2021

Abstract

We examine the role of interlocking connections among board directors and external auditors on financial reporting quality. Following agency, social network, and resource dependence theoretical perspectives, we form different expectations according to directors' role on the board and in the financial reporting process. When such interlocks involve executive directors, we expect that they reduce auditors’ independence and decrease financial reporting quality. On the contrary, when audit committee non-executive directors are involved, such interlocks represent an effective channel to reinforce their co-operation and information sharing with auditors towards ensuring higher financial reporting quality. Investigating a sample of 794 companies listed in France, Germany, and the UK throughout 2009-2017, we find support for both our expectations. On the one hand, firms with executive-auditor interlocks have less reliable accruals and lower reporting conservatism. On the other hand, when experienced but not too busy, audit committee directors interlocked with auditors are associated with more reliable accruals and a lower likelihood of beating earnings benchmarks. We also show that these findings vary by country according to the strength of legal and governance traditions.

Keywords: Financial Reporting Quality, Director-Audit Partner Interlocks, Auditing, Busyness, Executive Directors, Audit Committees

JEL Classification: G34, M40, M42, L14, D83, K42

Suggested Citation:

Volpentesta, Valeria and Andre, Paul, Interlocked Audit Partners and Board Directors: An Examination of Financial Reporting Quality (March 16, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3805716 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3805716
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit Committee Characteristics and Restatements
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S Ahn , P Jiraporn , Y S Kim
Multiple directorships and acquirer returns
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 34 , issue 9 , p. 2011 - 2026 Posted: 2010
Crossref
P André , A Filip , L Paugam
The Effect of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Conditional Conservatism in Europe
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 42 , issue 3-4 , p. 482 - 514 Posted: 2015
Crossref
P André , G Broye , C Pong , A Schatt
Are Joint Audits Associated with Higher Audit Fees?
European Accounting Review , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 274 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,110
RANK
362,694
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies