Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Compensation Contracts in the Presence of Adverse Selection

60 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2021 Last revised: 3 Sep 2025

Chris Armstrong

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Luzi Hail

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Oscar Timmermans

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

Rachel Xi Zhang

NUS Business School

Date Written: September 03, 2025

Abstract

We provide evidence from three complementary tests of agency-theoretic predictions about how adverse selection influences the design of executives’ incentive-compensation contracts. First, externally hired CEOs receive higher total pay and less equity incentives than internally promoted CEOs, consistent with the former extracting larger information rents from their private information. These differences are more pronounced when less is known about the incoming CEO and fade quickly, consistent with private information being resolved and contracts shifting from screening to addressing moral hazard. Second, externally hired CEOs’ initial contracts diverge more from those of their firm’s incumbent senior executives than do the contracts of internally promoted CEOs, consistent with boards using contract design to elicit private information. Third, following a sudden change in vesting schedules under SFAS 123R, newly appointed executives do not increase their option exercises and share sales—despite their newfound ability to do so—while longer-tenured executives do, reaffirming the screening role of initial contracts before shifting to a motivating role. In sum, our evidence sheds new light on how boards address adverse selection across multiple dimensions of contract design and team dynamics over time.

Keywords: executive compensation, CEO turnover, contract design, adverse selection, equity incentives, SFAS 123R

JEL Classification: G32, J33, J41, M41

Suggested Citation:

Armstrong, Chris S. and Hail, Luzi and Timmermans, Oscar and Zhang, Rachel Xi, Executive Compensation Contracts in the Presence of Adverse Selection (September 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3805082 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3805082
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
A Abadie , S Athey , G Imbens , J M Wooldridge
When should you adjust standard errors for clustering?
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 138 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2023
Proxy Statement Posted: 2023
G A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
C S Armstrong , C M Gallimberti , D Tsui
The screening role of covenant heterogeneity
The Accounting Review , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
601
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,393
RANK
102,967
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies