Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-GAAP Earnings and Board Connectedness in a Multiplex Network

Posted: 18 Mar 2021

Monika Causholli

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Nicole Thorne Jenkins

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Valbona Sulcaj

University of Texas at El Paso - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: May 2020

Abstract

We examine whether the quality of non-GAAP earnings disclosures varies with the board of directors’ connectedness. We construct a two-layer multiplex network where nodes represent boards while ties represent shared directorships in the first layer and industry membership in the second layer. The overlap between the layers creates a network where central boards have greater access to more relevant information and best practices relative to peripheral boards. We use this multiplex centrality to capture board connectedness. Relying on two governance theories, namely, resource dependence theory and agency theory, we predict that better connected boards in the network are better able to not only mitigate managerial opportunism but also to advise and counsel management in developing and disclosing higher quality non-GAAP earnings. Consistent with our predictions, we find that firms with highly central boards have less persistent non-GAAP exclusions, are less likely to receive a non-GAAP comment from the SEC, and are less likely to use non-GAAP exclusions to meet or beat earnings benchmarks. Our study extends prior literature on the role of corporate governance on non-GAAP earnings quality.

Keywords: Board Connectedness, non-GAAP Earnings, SEC Comment Letters, Multiplex Network, Beta Centrality.

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G30, D85, L14

Suggested Citation:

Causholli, Monika and Jenkins, Nicole Thorne and Sulcaj, Valbona, Non-GAAP Earnings and Board Connectedness in a Multiplex Network (May 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3805021
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
701
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies