Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Operating Cash Flows Management: An Examination of Credit Market Incentives

53 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2021

Hyung Il Oh

College of Business, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST)

Hyunpyo Kim

Shippensburg University of Pennsylvania

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Yong Gyu Lee

Seoul National University

Date Written: March 15, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines whether firms that engage in corporate social responsibility activities (CSR firms) manage reported cash flows from operations (CFO) when they have strong credit market incentives. We find that CSR firms near financial distress and those having a long-term credit rating near the investment/non-investment grade cutoff are more likely to inflate reported CFO, compared to all other firms. We also find evidence that CSR firms with these credit market incentives appear to resort mainly to classification rather than timing as a tool for managing CFO. Further, we find that the degree of CFO management performed by those CSR firms is more pronounced under weaker corporate governance. Overall, our findings suggest that CSR firms with stronger credit market incentives are more likely to manage CFO, and that such CFO management behavior is likely to be implemented at the expense of shareholders’ interest.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, operating cash flows management, credit market incentives, corporate governance

JEL Classification: M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Oh, Hyung Il and Kim, Hyunpyo and Kim, Jeong-Bon and Lee, Yong Gyu, Corporate Social Responsibility and Operating Cash Flows Management: An Examination of Credit Market Incentives (March 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3805477 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3805477
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
Crossref
M Arouri , G Pijourlet
CSR performance and the value of cash holdings: International evidence
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 140 , issue 2 , p. 263 - 284 Posted: 2017
Crossref
N Attig , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami , J Suh
Corporate social responsibility and credit ratings
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 117 , issue 4 , p. 679 - 694 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S C Bae , K Chang , H.-C Yi
Corporate social responsibility, credit rating, and private debt contracting: new evidence from syndicated loan market
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 261 - 299 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,313
RANK
328,615
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies