Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Likelihood and Extent of Listed US Firms’ Disclosures on Climate Change Risk

61 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2021 Last revised: 13 Oct 2023

Siqi Liu

The Open University - Faculty of Business and Law

Cristiana Bernardi

The Open University - Business School

Andrew W. Stark

Alliance Manchester Business School, University of Manchester

Mohamed omar Rouis

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 16, 2021

Abstract

This paper investigates the determinants of the likelihood and extent of climate change risk disclosures made by US firms through SEC filings, using a sample of 6129 US domiciled firm-years for the period from 2009 to 2017 that feature (or do not feature) disclosures about climate change risk made according to general disclosure principles for the reporting of material risks under SEC Regulation S-K. A growing number of US and international institutional investors regard climate change risk information as material to their decision-making process. The potential risks associated with climate change also have attracted growing attention from policy makers and standard setters. We identify factors that are associated with the likelihood of firms initiating and maintaining the disclosure of information on climate change risk, and its extent, contributing information that should be useful in assessing the effectiveness of the current US disclosure requirements.

Keywords: climate change risk; disclosure; US disclosure policy

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Siqi and Bernardi, Cristiana and Stark, Andrew W. and Rouis, Mohamed omar, On the Likelihood and Extent of Listed US Firms’ Disclosures on Climate Change Risk (March 16, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3806109 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3806109
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
A Amel-Zadeh
The Materiality of Climate Risk Posted: 2019
W Ben-Amar , P Mcilkenny
Board Effectiveness and the Voluntary Disclosure of Climate Change Information
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 24 , issue 8 , p. 704 - 719 Posted: 2015
W Ben-Amar , M Chang , P Mcilkenny
Board Gender Diversity and Corporate Response to Sustainability Initiatives: Evidence from the Carbon Disclosure Project
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 142 , p. 369 - 383 Posted: 2017
H Berkman , J Jona , N Soderstrom
Firm-Specific Climate Risk and Market Valuation Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
284
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,262
RANK
245,414
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies