Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Potentially Unintended Consequences of the SEC Restricting Managerial Discretion: Evidence from Peer Data Breaches and Cyber Risk Factors

46 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2021 Last revised: 28 Jun 2021

Musaib Ashraf

Michigan State University - Eli Broad College of Business

Date Written: June 28, 2021

Abstract

I document potentially unintended consequences of the SEC restricting managerial discretion, specifically focusing on the SEC’s 2011 guidance regarding cyber risk factors. Using peer data breaches as a salient proxy of non-breached firms that have material exposure to cyber risk and while controlling for firm and year fixed effects, I first find that peer breaches are associated with more unique cyber risk factor disclosures when non-breached firms’ managers possess greater discretion (in the pre-SEC-2011 period) and with less unique cyber risk factor disclosures after their discretion is limited (in the post-SEC-2011 period). I next find that a possible reason for the decrease in the post period is because firms are more likely to mirror the cybersecurity language used in the SEC’s 2011 guidance. Finally, I find that more unique cyber risk factors are more effective in reducing information asymmetry for investors. Altogether, my evidence is consistent with the SEC inducing an organizational shift from normative isomorphism to coercive isomorphism and suggests that the SEC may be harming disclosure informativeness by limiting managerial discretion.

Keywords: cybersecurity; cyber risk; data breaches; regulation; disclosure; risk factors

JEL Classification: M40; M41

Suggested Citation:

Ashraf, Musaib, Potentially Unintended Consequences of the SEC Restricting Managerial Discretion: Evidence from Peer Data Breaches and Cyber Risk Factors (June 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3807487 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3807487
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Equifax Hackers Steal Personal Details of Up to 143 Million People Posted: 2017
K Gatzlaff , K A Mccullough
The Effect of Data Breaches on Shareholder Wealth
Risk Management and Insurance Review , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 83 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S Goel , H A Shawky
Estimating the market impact of security breach announcements on firm values
Information and Management , volume 46 , issue 7 , p. 404 - 410 Posted: 2009
Crossref
L A Gordon , M P Loeb , L Zhou
The impact of information security breaches: Has there been a downward shift in costs
Journal of Computer Security , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 56 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
444
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,946
RANK
149,425
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies