Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Walking the Walk? Bank ESG Disclosures and Home Mortgage Lending

Fox School of Business Research Paper Forthcoming

Review of Accounting Studies Forthcoming

103 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2021 Last revised: 17 May 2022

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Justin Vitanza

Temple University - Department of Finance

Wei Wang

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Xiaoyu (Ross) Zhu

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) - Lingnan (University) College

Date Written: May 13, 2022

Abstract

We show that banks with high environmental, social, and governance (ESG) ratings issue fewer mortgages in poor localities—in number and dollar amount—than banks with low ESG ratings. This lending disparity happens at both the county and census tract level, worsens in disaster areas of severe hurricane strikes, is robust to alternative ESG ratings (including using only the social (S) component), and cannot be explained by banks’ differential deposit networks. We find no difference in mortgage default rates between high- and low-ESG banks, rejecting an alternative explanation based on differential credit screening quality. We report a complementary, not substitution, relation between high-ESG banks’ mortgage lending and their community development investments (like affordable housing projects) in poor localities. Loan-application-level analyses confirm that high-ESG banks are more likely than low-ESG banks to reject mortgage loans in poor neighborhoods. The evidence hints at social wash: banks deploy prosocial rhetoric and symbolic actions while not lending much in disadvantaged communities, the social function they arguably ought to perform. Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) examinations partially undo the social wash effect.

Keywords: ESG, financial institutions, mortgage lending disparity, non-financial disclosure, Community Reinvestment Act, green wash; social wash

JEL Classification: D82, G21, R31, M14

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Sudipta and Vitanza, Justin and Wang, Wei and Zhu, Xiaoyu (Ross), Walking the Walk? Bank ESG Disclosures and Home Mortgage Lending (May 13, 2022). Fox School of Business Research Paper Forthcoming, Review of Accounting Studies Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3807685 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3807685
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
S Agarwal , E Benmelech , N Bergman , A Seru
Did the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) lead to risky lending? Posted: 2012
R B Avery , P S Calem , G B Canner
The effects of the Community Reinvestment Act on local communities Posted: 2003
M S Barr
Credit where it counts: The Community Reinvestment Act and its critics
NYU Law Review , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 513 - 652 Posted: 2005
R Bartlett , A Morse , R Stanton , N Wallace
Consumer-lending discrimination in the FinTech era
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 143 , issue 1 , p. 30 - 56 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
893
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,608
RANK
61,213
13 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies