Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Disaggregation of, and Asymmetry in, CEO Pay-for-Luck

37 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2021

Shane S. Dikolli

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Andrew B. Jackson

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Marlene Plumlee

University of Utah - School of Accounting

Date Written: March 19, 2021

Abstract

Early work documents a sensitivity of CEO compensation contracts to economic factors beyond the control of the CEO, where CEO incentive payouts are increasing in performance attributable to good luck and decreasing in bad luck (referred to as “pay-for-luck”). Using established measures of luck, we confirm findings in more recent studies that finds no evidence of asymmetry in CEO pay-for-luck, where rewards for good luck are larger in magnitude than penalties for bad luck. When we employ an innovative method of disaggregating profitability drawn from the forecasting literature to disaggregate luck into orthogonal market and industry components, however, we find strong evidence of an asymmetry in CEO pay-for-luck, specifically related to luck around industry profitability. We investigate settings in which firms are more likely to try to retain incumbent CEOs and document pay-for-luck asymmetry only in profit-making firms. We also document pronounced pay-for-luck asymmetry in settings of (1) declining market and industry components of profitability, and growth rates, and (2) an increasing skill component of profitability, and growth in skill. Taken together, the cross-sectional findings support the prediction that evidence of CEO pay-for-luck asymmetry is motivated by CEO retention rather than CEO rent extraction.

Keywords: CEO Pay-for-Luck; CEO Pay-for-Luck Asymmetry; CEO Compensation; Incentive contracting

JEL Classification: J33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dikolli, Shane and Jackson, Andrew B. and Plumlee, Marlene A., The Disaggregation of, and Asymmetry in, CEO Pay-for-Luck (March 19, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3807626 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3807626
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
M Bertrand , S Mullainathan
Are CEOs rewarded for luck? The ones without principals are
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 116 , issue 3 , p. 901 - 932 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J M Bizjak , M L Lemmon , L Naveen
Does the use of peer groups contribute to higher pay and less efficient compensation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 90 , issue 2 , p. 152 - 168 Posted: 2008
Crossref
T C Campbell , M E Thompson
Why are CEOs paid for good luck? An empirical comparison of explanations for pay-for-luck asymmetry
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 35 , p. 247 - 264 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Carhart
On persistence in mutual fund performance
Journal of Finance , volume 52 , p. 57 - 82 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,079
RANK
407,330
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies