Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Federal Government Contracts and Financial Reporting Quality

60 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2021

Chris He

Marquette University

Mark J. Kohlbeck

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 18, 2021

Abstract

Government spending is essential for the US economy, and the amount of capital that flows from the government to US firms increased substantially in recent years. Despite the economic importance of the corporate-government contracting relationship, we know little about the firm-level financial outcomes associated with government contracts. Federal government regulations require federal contractors to maintain strong internal control over financial reporting and government contractors have strong incentives to maintain government contracts. As a result, we expect and find that corporate government contracting relationships are associated with higher firm-level financial reporting quality compared to non-government contractors. Further, we find that the improvement of financial reporting quality begins when a firm becomes a federal contractor and greater amounts of government contracts revenue are associated with higher levels of financial reporting quality. We also find the quality of financial reporting weakens after a firm loses government contracts. Collectively, our empirical results suggest that having the government as a customer has a positive impact on the quality of financial reports.

Keywords: public procurement, government contractors, financial reporting quality

Suggested Citation:

He, Zhijian and Kohlbeck, Mark J., Federal Government Contracts and Financial Reporting Quality (March 18, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3807526 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3807526
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Hui Chen , Katherine Gunny
Profitability and Cost Shifting in Government Procurement Contracts
AAA 2015 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Pages: 33 Posted: 19 Aug 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Agnes Cheng , Wenli Huang , Shaojun Zhang
Major Government Customer and Management Earnings Forecasts
Pages: 51 Posted: 8 Nov 2019 Last revised: 28 Oct 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Daniel A. Cohen , Bin Li
Why Do Firms Hold Less Cash? A Customer Base Explanation
Pages: 46 Posted: 24 May 2014 Last revised: 8 Dec 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
D Cohen , B Li
Customer-base concentration, investment, and profitability: The US government as a major customer
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 1 , p. 101 - 132 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
313
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,564
RANK
169,080
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies