Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Assurance and Assurance Providers Enhance Covid-Related Disclosures In CSR Reports? An Examination In The UK Context

International Journal of Accounting and Information Management 2021

Posted: 21 Mar 2021

Khaldoon Albitar

University of Glasgow

Habiba Al-Shaer

Newcastle University Business School

Mahmoud Elmarzouky

University of Westminster ; University of Portsmouth

Date Written: March 19, 2021

Abstract

Purpose – The COVID-19 pandemic has been adding pressures on companies to commit to their social and ethical responsibilities. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) reporting is the main tool through which companies communicate their social behaviour and the need for credible information is censorious during the crisis. This paper aims to measure the level of COVID-19 disclosures in CSR reports by using an automated textual analysis technique based on a sample of UK companies and investigate whether the level of disclosure is enhanced for companies that subject their CSR reports to an assurance process.

Design/methodology/approach – The study sample consists of FTSE All-share non-financial listed companies. The authors use a computer-aided textual analysis, and we use a bag of words to capture COVIDrelated information in the CSR section of the firm’s annual reports.

Findings – The results suggest that the existence of independent external assurance is significantly and positively associated with the provision of COVID-19 information in CSR reports. The authors also find that when assurance is provided by Big 4 accountancy firms, the disclosure of COVID-related information is enhanced. Furthermore, large companies are more likely to disclose COVID-related information in their CSR reports that are externally assured from top-tier accountancy firms, suggesting that assurance could be a burden for smaller firms. Overall, the findings suggest that assurance on CSR reports provides an “insurance-like” protection that mitigates the risks and signals the management’s ethical behaviour during the pandemic.

Practical implications – The study approach helps to assess the level of corporate engagement with COVID-19 practices and the extent of related disclosures in CSR reports based on the COVID-19 Secure Guidelines published by the UK government. This helps to emphasise how companies engage and communicate COVID-19-related information to stakeholders through CSR reports and ensure a safe working environment during this pandemic. Managers will need to assess the costs and benefits of purchasing assurance on CSR disclosures, giving the ethical signal that assurance sends to the market and protection that it covers during the crisis.

Originality/value – This paper provides a shred of unique evidence of the impact of the existence of external assurance and the type of assurer on the disclosure of COVID-related information in CSR reports. To the best of authors’ knowledge, no study has yet investigated the corporate disclosure on an unforeseen event in CSR reports and the role of CSR assurance in this respect.



Suggested Citation:

Albitar, Khaldoon and Al-Shaer, Habiba and Elmarzouky, Mahmoud and Elmarzouky, Mahmoud, Do Assurance and Assurance Providers Enhance Covid-Related Disclosures In CSR Reports? An Examination In The UK Context (March 19, 2021). International Journal of Accounting and Information Management 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3807887
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
362
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies