Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Informational Consequences of Good and Bad Mergers

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2021 Last revised: 6 Oct 2022

Samer Adra

University of Sheffield

Leonidas G. Barbopoulos

University of Edinburgh

Date Written: October 4, 2022

Abstract

We study the information production dynamics in financial markets in response to Mergers and Acquisitions (M&As) announcements. We find that acquirers with low levels of pre-announcement stock price informativeness experience a substantial increase in their corresponding post-announcement stock price informativeness in response to positive Cumulative Abnormal Returns (CAR). We show that this increase is due to the enhanced prospect of deal completion. By contrast, high levels of acquirer pre-announcement stock price informativeness limit traders’ incentives to search for, and acquire, new information. We also find that similar dynamics apply to the changes in acquirers’ analyst coverage. Emphasizing the important role of information acquisition costs in influencing informed trading, a positive acquirer CAR increases the acquiring firm’s post-announcement stock price informativeness in M&As involving public rather than private and subsidiary targets. Overall, we show that M&As have important informational consequences beyond their immediate effects on stock prices.

Keywords: Stock price informativeness; Endogenous information production; Mergers and Acquisitions; Analyst coverage.

JEL Classification: G14, G31, G34

Suggested Citation:

Adra, Samer and Barbopoulos, Leonidas G., The Informational Consequences of Good and Bad Mergers (October 4, 2022). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3808344 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3808344
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
S Adra , L Barbopoulos , A Saunders
The Impact of Monetary Policy on M&A Outcomes
J. Corp. Financ , volume 62 Posted: 2020
S Adra , L G Barbopoulos
Liquidity and Information Asymmetry Considerations in Corporate Takeovers
Eur. J. Financ , volume 25 , p. 724 - 743 Posted: 2019
S Adra , L G Barbopoulos
The Valuation Effects of Investor Attention in Stock-Financed Acquisitions
J. Empir. Financ , volume 45 , p. 108 - 125 Posted: 2018
N Aktas , E Bodt , De , F Declerck , H Oppens , Van
The PIN Anomaly Around M&A Announcements
J. Financ. Mark , volume 10 , p. 169 - 191 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
906
RANK
505,214
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies