Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Prediction of Bankruptcy Potential Company of Drinking Water Region

11 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2021

Endri Endri

Universitas Mercu Buana

Date Written: March 20, 2021

Abstract

This study aims to predict the potential bankruptcy of the Regional Water Company in Indonesia. The research data is the PDAM’s financial statements in 2015 and the performance evaluation data
of PDAM in 2016. The method used in this research is discriminant method and theory of conditional probability of Bayes. The dependent variable is the category of bankrupt and not bankrupt, while the independent variables are 10 financial ratios such as Net Working Capital to Total Asset, Retained Earning to Total Asset, EBIT to Total Asset, Book Value of Equity to Book Value of Total Debt, Sales to Total Asset, Return On Equity, Operating Ratio, Cash Ratio, and Billing Effectivity. However, for multicollinearity reasons then EBIT to Total Assets and Debt to Asset Ratio is eliminated. The results of the discriminant analysis showed that 8 independent variables can show a significant difference and can form a discriminant function.

Keywords: PDAM, discriminant, bankruptcy, financial ratio

Suggested Citation:

Endri, Endri, Prediction of Bankruptcy Potential Company of Drinking Water Region (March 20, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3808630 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3808630
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Ahmad M Abdullah
Comparing the Reliability of Accounting-Based and Market-based Prediction Models
Asian Journal of Accounting and Governance , volume 7 , p. 41 - 55 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Z Affes , R Hentati-Kaffel
Predicting US banks bankruptcy: logit versus Canonical Discriminant analysis. Documents de travail du Centre d'Economie de la Sorbonne , volume 16 , p. 1955 - 611 Posted: 2016
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The journal of finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Haldeman Altman , P Narayanan
Zeta Analysis: A New Model to Identify Bankruptcy Risk of Corporations
Journal of Banking & Finance , p. 29 - 54 Posted: 1977
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
549
RANK
702,914
1 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies