Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring the Effects of Agency Theory on Ownership Structures and Firm Performance

Indian School of Business WP Forthcoming

Posted: 23 Mar 2021

Radhika Voleti

Indian School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 30, 2018

Abstract

The development of Corporate Governance is a global phenomenon and draws significant attention of both academic and in practice. A growing body of research in this area is obvious and suggests that this new area gains relevance and its development has been affected by the theories of different disciplines. The present study mainly focuses on ‘Agency Theory’ and this theory provides theoretical framework for corporate governance. The basic assumption of this theory is that the agent is likely to be self-centered and optimistic about the chances to maximize his utility.

However, defining agency theory as a contractual relationship under which both the parties are trying to maximize their utility. If every individual behaves rationally decision making becomes difficult in the system in order to achieve common goals. The agent will not always act rationally because he must make decisions according to the preferences. Sometimes these preferences can also be turned as constraints to their rational decision making process. The agent will not always act in the best interest of the principal because of bounded rationality. The Agency costs means the costs incurred in scrutinizing and controlling the mangers and try to put off their exploitation2. These costs may be reduced by well planned approach to governance structures. The problems arising out of agent- principal relationship create governance issues and badly impact the firm’s performance. The firms which having weaker governance structures, managers of those firms acted rationally to maximize their personal benefits, because of weak corporate structures. Agency problem is not only a matter of separation of interest but also conflict of interest with in the ownership structures. The Agency problems, ownership structures’ and firms’ performance are inter-related. The ownerships structures have a significant impact on long term value and firms’ performance. Effective governance mechanisms’ can only minimize the agency costs and hold-up problems associated with separation of ownership and control. Corporate governance not only reinforces the managerial responsibility but also boosts the confidence of the managers’; to improve firm’s performance towards maximizing profits rather than pursue their own objects. This paper deals with the principal - agent problem in the stakeholder context. This study also emphasizes that good governance mechanisms can only curtail the agency, moral hazards’ and hold-up problems connected with separation of ownership and control. Generally, ownership structure is considered an important factor in determining the value of the firm. However, the empirical results of this study state the ownership structure is not an only instrument to tackle the agency related problems. But, by reducing agency costs through effective ownership mechanisms will improve firm’s economic performance.


Keywords: Agency costs, Ownership structures, Firm performance, Governance mechanisms, Stakeholders

JEL Classification: G34, G32

Suggested Citation:

Voleti (Nidumolu), Dr.Radhika, Exploring the Effects of Agency Theory on Ownership Structures and Firm Performance (June 30, 2018). Indian School of Business WP Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3809607
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,389
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies