Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Corporate Investment Horizons and Identifying Short-Termism

61 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2021

Andreas Knetsch

Leibniz Institute for Financial Research SAFE; RWTH Aachen University

Date Written: May 19, 2020

Abstract

This paper proposes an empirical approach to capture investment horizons. I utilize this method to analyze short-termist investment. It relies on information which is not observable to investors in the period of investment and therefore considers the nature of short-termism as an agency problem. My empirical findings establish the validity of the introduced approach by relating it to an existing measure of investment horizons as well as multiple firm characteristics which are connected to short-termism. I observe that investment horizons are shorter for firms that inflate their reported income through real or accrual-based earnings management and for firms whose stock prices are more sensitive to earnings surprises. I also investigate which governance mechanisms are effective in curtailing short-termism. Managerial entrenchment, analyst coverage, institutional ownership, the effectiveness of the board of directors, and managerial long-term compensation all relate to longer investment horizons and thus less short-termism.

Keywords: short-termism; investment horizons; asymmetric information; corporate governance

JEL Classification: G31, G34

Suggested Citation:

Knetsch, Andreas, Measuring Corporate Investment Horizons and Identifying Short-Termism (May 19, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3810872 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3810872
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Sanjai Bhagat , Brian J. Bolton , Roberta Romano
The Promise and Peril of Corporate Governance Indices
ECGI - Law Working Paper No. 89/2007, Yale Law & Economics Research Paper No. 367 Pages: 91 Posted: 14 Oct 2007 Last revised: 15 Feb 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Columbia Law Review , volume 108 , issue 8 , p. 1803 - 1882
Crossref
S Bhojraj , P Hribar , M Picconi , J &amp;mcinnis
Making sense of cents: An examination of firms that marginally miss or beat analyst forecasts
The Journal of Finance , volume 64 , issue 5 , p. 2361 - 2388 Posted: 2009
Crossref
G C Biddle , G Hilary , R S Verdi
How does financial reporting quality relate to investment efficiency?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2-3 , p. 112 - 131 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Wolfgang Breuer , Andreas Knetsch , Astrid Juliane Salzmann
Short-termist Investment and Time Preferences
56 Pages · Posted: 24 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 118
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
718
RANK
596,846
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies