Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Short-termist Investment and Time Preferences

56 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2021

Wolfgang Breuer

RWTH Aachen University

Andreas Knetsch

Leibniz Institute for Financial Research SAFE; RWTH Aachen University

Astrid Juliane Salzmann

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management; RWTH Aachen University - Department of Finance

Date Written: May 19, 2020

Abstract

This paper investigates the effect of shareholder and manager time preferences on short-termist investment behavior. Our theoretical analysis shows that managerial future orientation curtails short-termism whereas shareholder patience exacerbates it. We test these predictions by comparing the effects of time preferences on investment horizons of listed and unlisted firms in a sample of European firms. Based on the assumption that unlisted firms suffer from less asymmetric information, the effects of future orientation on investment horizons that are exclusive to listed firms provide weak support for our hypotheses. When considering future orientation on a national level, we find some evidence for firms in more future-oriented countries investing more long-term oriented. We can however not confirm the widespread notion that firms in more future-oriented countries suffer from less short-termism.

Keywords: agency conflicts, investment behavior, time preferences, short-termist investment

JEL Classification: G31, Z10, O57, G41

Suggested Citation:

Breuer, Wolfgang and Knetsch, Andreas and Salzmann, Astrid Juliane, Short-termist Investment and Time Preferences (May 19, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3810880 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3810880
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
J Abegglen , G Stalk
The Japanese Corporation Posted: 1985
A Ali , L.-S Hwang
Country-Specific Factors Related to Financial Reporting and the Value Relevance of Accounting Data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R C Anderson , A Duru , D M Reeb
Investment Policy in Family Controlled Firms
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 36 , p. 1744 - 1758 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R C Antonczyk , W Breuer , A J Salzmann
Long-Term Orientation and Relationship Lending: A Cross-Cultural Study on the Effect of Time Preferences on the Choice of Corporate Debt
Management International Review , volume 54 , p. 381 - 415 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
780
RANK
545,411
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies