Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Communicate and Use Accounting To Ensure Buy-In from Stakeholders - Lessons for Organizations from Governments’ Covid-19 Strategies

Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, forthcoming

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper

15 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2021

Charl de Villiers

University of Auckland Business School

Matteo Molinari

University of Bergamo - University of Bergamo,; University of Roehampton

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to understand how communication strategies and the use of numbers can ensure the buy-in and cooperation of stakeholders.

Design/methodology/approach – Drawing on legitimacy theory, this study analysis documents regarding the communication strategies of New Zealand’s Prime Minster, Jacinda Ardern, during the Covid-19 pandemic, in order to extract lessons for organizations. We contrast Ardern’s communications with those of Donald Trump, the President of the US, as evidence that leaders do not necessarily follow these strategies.

Findings – The findings show that clear, consistent, and credible communications, backed up by open access to the numerical data that underlie the decisions, ensure that these decisions are seen as legitimate, ensure that citizens/stakeholders feel leaders are accountable and believe in the necessity of measures taken, and that they conform to the guidelines and rules. By contrast, the strategy of attempting to withhold information, blaming others, refusing to acknowledge that there are problems, and refusing to address problems, lead to non-conformance by citizens/stakeholders. Business leaders could apply these lessons to the management of crises in their organizations to ensure buy-in from employees and other stakeholders. Leaders and organizations that follow these communication strategies can emerge in a stronger position than before the crisis.

Research implications – This paper develops a theoretical framework of strategies aimed at maintaining and disrupting legitimacy among key audiences, which can be used in future research.

Practical implications – This paper highlighting how organizations and organizational leaders can best communicate with stakeholders using accounting, thus coming across as being accountable during crisis times.

Social implications – The legitimacy maintenance strategies outlined in this paper ensures that stakeholders feel leaders, and the organizations they represent, hold themselves accountable.

Originality/value – This paper outlines the lessons that organization can learn from communication strategies adopted by governments during the Covid-19 crisis. The paper extends legitimacy theory by explicitly acknowledging the ability to disrupt the legitimacy of others, and including this in our theoretical framework.

Keywords: Covid-19, Communication strategies, Crisis accounting, Legitimacy theory

Suggested Citation:

de Villiers, Charl and Molinari, Matteo, How to Communicate and Use Accounting To Ensure Buy-In from Stakeholders - Lessons for Organizations from Governments’ Covid-19 Strategies (2021). Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, forthcoming , The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3811912
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
G Awio , D Northcott , S Lawrence
Social capital and accountability in grassroots NGOs
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 92 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Bbc News
Coronavirus: New Zealand claims no community cases as lockdown eases Posted: 2020
G Bouckaert , D Galli , S Kulmann , R Reiter , S Van Hecke
European Coronationalism? A Hot Spot Governing a Pandemic Crisis
Public Administration Review Posted: 2020
Crossref
V Braun , Clarke , V
Successful Qualitative Research Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,005
RANK
505,214
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies