Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Country-level Risk and the Tradeoff between Real Earnings Management and Accrual Earnings Management: Evidence from Pakistan

Published in NUST Business Review, NBR-20-0018, Vol. 02 (02), 12, 2020, pp. 01-20. DOI: https://doi.org/10.37435/NBR-

21 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2021

Imran Said

Nust Business School

Imran Riaz Malik

Capital University of Science and Technology

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

The aim of this study is to understand whether real earnings management (REM) and accruals earnings management (AM) can be used as substitute of one another in the context of Pakistan. Additionally, we also examine the effect of country-level political risk on earnings management. To achieve our desire objectives, we used a panel sample of 197 Pakistani firms for a period of 13 years (2007-2019). To measure REM, we follow Roychowdhury (2006) and to measure AM, we follow Jones (1991) and modified Jones (1995) model. For data analysis, we used simultaneous equation modelling and ordinary least square (OLS) regression with time and firm fixed effects.

The results indicate that when the cost associated with REM(AM) increases, the firm’s inclination towards AM(REM) decreases which suggests that managers use both REM and AM approaches as substitutes of one another. Further, the results show that country-level political risks positively affect real REM while it has insignificant effect on AM. Moreover, the adoption of IFRS as accounting standards does not have any effect on the earnings management in Pakistan. This study can be extended to firm-level risk factors to examine their role in earnings management. Moreover, how manager use to adopt REM and AM in the highly regulated industries i.e., financial and services industries, also provides a promising opportunity for future research.

Keywords: Earnings Management (EM); Real Earnings Management (REM); Accrual Management (AM); Country-Level Political Risk IFRS

Suggested Citation:

Said, Imran and Malik, Imran Riaz, Country-level Risk and the Tradeoff between Real Earnings Management and Accrual Earnings Management: Evidence from Pakistan (2020). Published in NUST Business Review, NBR-20-0018, Vol. 02 (02), 12, 2020, pp. 01-20. DOI: https://doi.org/10.37435/NBR- , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3811625
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
362
RANK
856,579
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies