Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Barriers for Sustainability Reporting: Evidence from Indo-Pacific Region

Dissanayake, D., Kuruppu, S., Qian, W. and Tilt, C. (2020), "Barriers for sustainability reporting: evidence from Indo-Pacific region", Meditari Accountancy Research, Vol. 29 No. 2, pp. 264-293.

34 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2021 Last revised: 5 Jan 2022

Dinithi Dissanayake

University of South Australia

Sanjaya Kuruppu

University of South Australia

Wei Qian

University of South Australia - School of Commerce

Carol Tilt

University of South Australia

Date Written: March 24, 2021

Abstract

Purpose
The purpose of this paper is to provide insights into the barriers for sustainability reporting practices in five different countries in the Indo-Pacific region.

Design/methodology/approach
This paper uses surveys and semi-structured interviews to explore the main barriers faced by the managers of listed companies in undertaking sustainability reporting.

Findings
The findings of the study reveal that the main barriers for sustainability reporting are attributable to lack of knowledge and understanding, additional cost involved, time constraints, lack of awareness and education in sustainability reporting and a lack of initiatives from government. These vary between three groups of countries: those with more developed reporting, those with less developed reporting and those with strong cultural constraints to reporting.

Research limitations/implications
This study adapts Lewin’s field theory and three-step model of change to be applied to group dynamics at a broader country level rather than at an organisational level.

Practical implications
The barriers identified in this paper are important for reporting companies to come up with strategies to mitigate existing barriers and for regulatory authorities to provide subsidies and other incentives to supplement the efforts of these listed companies. Also, non-reporting companies could use the findings as a measure of cautiousness to set up the necessary processes to have a smooth sustainability reporting process in their companies.

Originality/value
This is one of the few studies that explore the barriers for sustainability reporting in five countries in the Indo-Pacific region.

Keywords: Bangladesh, Vietnam, Sri Lanka, Philippines, Indonesia, Barriers, Sustainability reporting

Suggested Citation:

Dissanayake, Dinithi and Kuruppu, Sanjaya and Qian, Wei and Tilt, Carol, Barriers for Sustainability Reporting: Evidence from Indo-Pacific Region (March 24, 2021). Dissanayake, D., Kuruppu, S., Qian, W. and Tilt, C. (2020), "Barriers for sustainability reporting: evidence from Indo-Pacific region", Meditari Accountancy Research, Vol. 29 No. 2, pp. 264-293., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3811898
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
C Adams , P Mcnicholas
Making a difference: Sustainability reporting, accountability and organisational change
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 382 - 402 Posted: 2007
C A Adams , G Whelan
Conceptualising future change in corporate sustainability reporting
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 118 - 143 Posted: 2009
W Ali , Frynas , Mahmood
Determinants of corporate social responsibility (CSR) disclosure in developed and developing countries: A literature review
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 273 - 294 Posted: 2017
Anh Vu , K Buranatrakul , T
Corporate social responsibility disclosure in Vietnam: a longitudinal study
DLSU Business & Economics Review , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 147 - 165 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
855
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,837
RANK
65,053
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies