Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Key Performance Indicators and the Global Reporting Initiative: Usage and Challenges in a Developing Country Context a Developing Country Context

Dissanayake, D. (2020), ‘Sustainability Key Performance Indicators and the Global Reporting Initiative: usage and challenges in a developing country context’, Meditari Accountancy Research, forthcoming.

35 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2021

Dinithi Dissanayake

University of South Australia

Date Written: September 15, 2020

Abstract

Purpose – First, this paper aims to explore the extent of the global reporting initiative (GRI) sustainability key performance indicator (KPI) usage in sustainability reporting by businesses operating in Sri Lanka. Second, using a contingency theory approach, this research examines the factors which promote or inhibit the use of the GRI framework to adopt sustainability KPIs in a developing country context, Sri Lanka.

Design/methodology/approach – Content analysis and semi-structured interviews are used in this study to explore the key factors which affect the usage of the GRI framework by Sri Lankan companies in adopting sustainability KPIs and reporting on sustainability.

Findings – The findings indicate that the GRI framework is increasingly used for sustainability reporting by Sri Lankan companies because of its flexibility, consistency, legitimacy and its focus on continuous improvement. However, company managers also shed light on the extensive number of KPIs in the GRI framework making selections challenging and the consequent difficulties associated with adapting these KPIs for companies operating in a developing country context.

Research limitations/implications – This study contributes to extending the broader literature on sustainability reporting in developing countries and specifically on sustainability KPIs. Second, this paper adds to the current empirical research on sustainability reporting in Sri Lanka where the literature is still sparse. Third, this study highlights the key factors that support or hinder the usage of the GRI framework in a developing country context.

Practical implications – Important insights for GRI, other standard-setting agencies and businesses can be drawn from the findings of this study. By capitalising further on the training and the educational courses provided by GRI, GRI can be involved in mitigating some of the pressing issues faced by the reporting companies.

Originality/value – This study adds to the limited research on sustainability reporting and sustainability KPIs in developing country contexts. It shows how companies in Sri Lanka are engaging with sustainability KPIs and sustainability reporting, but are also constrained by the GRI framework as its standards are not tailored to issues in developing countries.

Keywords: Sri Lanka, Contingency theory, Developing country, Sustainability reporting, GRI, Sustainability KPIs

Suggested Citation:

Dissanayake, Dinithi, Sustainability Key Performance Indicators and the Global Reporting Initiative: Usage and Challenges in a Developing Country Context a Developing Country Context (September 15, 2020). Dissanayake, D. (2020), ‘Sustainability Key Performance Indicators and the Global Reporting Initiative: usage and challenges in a developing country context’, Meditari Accountancy Research, forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3811088
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
S Abeydeera , H &amp; Tregidga , Kearins
Sustainability reporting-more global than local?
Meditari Accountancy Research , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 478 - 504
Crossref
C A Adams , G R Frost
Integrating sustainability reporting into management practices
Accounting Forum , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 288 - 302 Posted: 2008
Crossref
W Ali , Frynas , Mahmood
Determinants of corporate social responsibility (CSR) disclosure in developed and developing countries: A literature review
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 273 - 94 Posted: 2017
Crossref
A Amran , Haniffa
Evidence in development of sustainability reporting: a case of a developing country
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 141 - 156
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Sanjaya Kuruppu , Markus J. Milne , Carol Tilt
Sustainability Control Systems in Short-term Operational and Long-term Strategic Decision-making
Kuruppu, S.C., Milne, M.J. and Tilt, C.A. (2023), "Sustainability control systems in short-term operational and long-term strategic decision-making", Meditari Accountancy Research, Vol. ahead-of-print No. ahead-of-print. https://doi.org/10.1108/MEDAR-12-2021-1548 · 32 Pages · Posted: 13 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 212
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
695
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,419
RANK
85,416
1 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies