Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Intangible Assets Really Foster Corporate Tax Avoidance?

55 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2021 Last revised: 13 Oct 2022

Kai Wu

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Finance

Weimian Ai

Einaudi Institute for Economics and Finance (EIEF); Luiss Guido Carli University

Yi Liu

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business

Date Written: October 4, 2022

Abstract

Off-balance intangible assets, including knowledge capital and organizational capital, are becoming an increasingly important part of the US and global capital stock. In this study, we find that firms with high off-balance intangible assets exhibit a lower extent of corporate tax avoidance. The negative association is mainly manifested in firms with less incentivized managers, a lack of foreign revenue, and lower diversification. We further demonstrate that the negative relation is driven by knowledge capital rather than organizational capital. In addition, firms with high knowledge capital are more productive and are less likely to invest in tax-haven subsidiaries. The primary results are corroborated by an earnings-based measure of intangible intensity. Overall, our study resurrects the investigation on the role of intangible assets in corporate tax policies.

Keywords: intangible assets; tax avoidance; off-balance

JEL Classification: G34, E22, H26

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Kai and Ai, Weimian and Liu, Yi, Do Intangible Assets Really Foster Corporate Tax Avoidance? (October 4, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3811955 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3811955
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
J Alm , J Martinez-Vazquez , C Mcclellan
Corruption and firm tax evasion
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 124 , p. 146 - 163 Posted: 2016
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
B A Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego
The separation of ownership and control and corporate tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 228 - 250 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
558
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,992
RANK
113,544
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies