Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Back to the Beginning' or 'Bring Forth the New' - Familism Culture and Succession Choice of Professional Managers' Abnormal Turnover

19 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2021

Mingyu Dai

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics - School of Accounting

Manru Teng

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 25, 2021

Abstract

Traditional Chinese culture is based on clan family, and trust is based on informal contracts such as consanguinity, kinship, geography and business relationship. It also affects the succession choice in the “professionalization” governance reform of private enterprises. This paper empirically analyzes the relationship between familism culture and succession choice of abnormal turnover of professional managers. The results show that: firstly, the stronger the familism culture is, the more tendency to re-employ family managers for professional managers' succession choice of abnormal turnover; the weaker the familism culture is, the more tendency to continue to employ professional managers for professional managers' succession choice of abnormal turnover. Secondly, as an inevitable external macroscopic factor, the uncertainty of economic policy will aggravate both tendencies of succession choice of professional managers. Finally, it further studies the influence of familism culture acting on the succession choice of abnormal turnover of professional managers in different situations. The results of the paper formulate a systematic research framework and provide empirical support for the research on the appointment, abnormal turnover and succession choice of professional managers in family enterprises.

Keywords: familism culture; abnormal turnover of professional managers; succession choice; marketization degree; familization degree and familization governance degree

Suggested Citation:

Dai, Mingyu and Teng, Manru, 'Back to the Beginning' or 'Bring Forth the New' - Familism Culture and Succession Choice of Professional Managers' Abnormal Turnover (March 25, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3812065
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
443
RANK
785,362
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies