Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investors' Reactions to CSR News in Family vs. Nonfamily Firms: A Study on Signal (In)Credibility

Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice

45 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2021 Last revised: 12 Jul 2023

Naciye Sekerci

KU Leuven, Department Accounting, Finance and Insurance; Lund University

Jamil Jaballah

Grenoble Ecole de Management

Marc van Essen

University of South Carolina - Darla Moore School of Business; University of South Carolina - Darla Moore School of Business

Nadine Kammerlander

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: March 25, 2021

Abstract

We study family firm status as an important condition in signaling theory; specifically, we propose that the market reacts more positively to positive, and more negatively to negative, CSR news (i.e., signals) from family firms than to similar news from nonfamily firms. Moreover, we propose that during recessions, the direction of these relationships reverses. Based on an event study of 1,247 positive and negative changes in the CSR ratings for all firms listed on the French SFB120 stock market index (2003-2013), we find support for our hypotheses. Moreover, a post hoc analysis reveals that the relationships are contingent on whether a family CEO leads the firm.

Keywords: family firms, signaling theory, corporate social responsibility, market reaction, recession, family CEO

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Sekerci, Naciye and Jaballah, Jamil and Essen, Marc van and Essen, Marc van and Kammerlander, Nadine, Investors' Reactions to CSR News in Family vs. Nonfamily Firms: A Study on Signal (In)Credibility (March 25, 2021). Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3812408
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
160 References
H Aguinis , S Zedeck
Organizational responsibility: Doing good and doing well
APA handbook of industrial and organizational psychology , volume 3 , p. 855 - 879 Posted: 2011
A Akpinar , Y Jiang , L R Gómez-Mejía , P Berrone , J L Walls
Strategic use of CSR as a signal for good management Posted: 2008
R Amit , Y Ding , B Villalonga , H Zhang
The role of institutional development in the prevalence and performance of entrepreneur and family-controlled firms
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 31 , p. 284 - 305 Posted: 2015
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1327 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
711
RANK
531,260
160 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies