Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Dual-holders and Corporate Disclosures: A Natural Experiment

Forthcoming in Contemporary Accounting Research

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2025-197

61 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2021 Last revised: 22 Nov 2024

Lin Cheng

The University of Arizona - Eller College of Management

Qiang Cheng

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Liwei Weng

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Mark Yuzhi Yan

Hong Kong Baptist University

Date Written: November 18, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the impact of the presence of institutional dual-holders, whose portfolios hold both loans and equity securities of the same firms, on those firms’ voluntary disclosures. Using mergers between institutional shareholders and lenders to the same firms as exogenous shocks to identify firms with institutional dual-holders that have high relative equity ownership, we document that such firms are less likely to provide management forecasts and disclose fewer voluntary 8-K items. In cross-sectional analyses, we find that the reduction in voluntary disclosures is more pronounced when institutional dual-holders have higher board representation and when firms have lower litigation risk. In addition, we find that firms with institutional dual-holders provide more private disclosures to their lenders via loan contract covenants. Additional analyses indicate that the impact of institutional dual-holders on corporate disclosures is driven by both their monitoring and trading incentives.


Keywords: institutional investors, dual-holders, corporate disclosures, monitoring, trading

JEL Classification: G21, G23, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Lin and Cheng, Qiang and Weng, Liwei and Yan, Mark Yuzhi, Institutional Dual-holders and Corporate Disclosures: A Natural Experiment (November 18, 2024). Forthcoming in Contemporary Accounting Research, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2025-197, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3812051 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3812051
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer , J Zechner
Large shareholder activism, risk sharing, and financial market equilibrium
Journal of Political Economy , volume 102 , issue 6 , p. 1097 - 1130 Posted: 1994
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
J Asker , A Ljungqvist
Competition and the structure of vertical relationships in capital markets
Journal of Political Economy , volume 118 , issue 3 , p. 599 - 647 Posted: 2010
S P Baginski , J M Hassell , M D Kimbrough
The effect of legal environment on voluntary disclosure: Evidence from management earnings forecasts issued in US and Canadian markets
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 2002
Load more
1 Citations
SeungWon Lee , Heeick Choi , Soomi Jang
Do dual holders enhance or hinder managerial efficiency?
Applied Economics , p. 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
845
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,699
RANK
66,091
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies