Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Income Smoothing during the COVID-19 Pandemic: Evidence from UK Banks

17 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2021 Last revised: 6 Jan 2022

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: March 26, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the association between bank loan loss provisions and the pre-provisions earnings of UK banks during the first-wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. A positive co-movement between the two variables indicates evidence of income smoothing. The findings show that loan loss provision has an inverted V-shaped property during the first-wave COVID-19 pandemic. Loan loss provisions reached its highest level at the peak of the pandemic in the second quarter of 2020 and declined in the subsequent quarters. The regression results show a positive relationship between loan loss provisions and pre-provisions earnings during the pandemic quarters and in the pre-pandemic quarters. The positive relationship is stronger in the pandemic quarters and indicates evidence of higher income smoothing in the pandemic quarters. The correlation results also show a strong positive correlation between bank provisions and pre-provisions earnings in the pandemic period. In the individual bank analysis, three of the four systemic banks exhibit higher income smoothing during the pandemic quarters. The implication of the findings is that UK systemic banks engaged in earnings management as a coping mechanism to mitigate the effect of the pandemic on their profits.

Keywords: banks, systemic risk, income smoothing, loan loss provisions, COVID-19, pandemic, earnings management, United Kingdom, Britain.

JEL Classification: G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Bank Income Smoothing during the COVID-19 Pandemic: Evidence from UK Banks (March 26, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3812955 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3812955
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
M Akhtaruzzaman , S Boubaker , A Sensoy
Financial contagion during COVID-19 crisis
Finance Research Letters , volume 38 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2021
C T Albulescu
COVID-19 and the United States financial markets' volatility
Finance Research Letters , volume 38 , p. 1 - 5 Posted: 2021
C Altavilla , F Barbiero , M Boucinha , L Burlon
The great lockdown: pandemic response policies and bank lending conditions
Posted: 2020
B N Ashraf
Economic impact of government interventions during the COVID-19 pandemic: International evidence from financial markets
Journal of behavioral and experimental finance , volume 27 , p. 100 - 371 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
588
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,163
RANK
105,875
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies