Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Earnings Management: Empirical Evidence of the Distress and Non-Distress Companies

Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Theresia; Indrastuti, D. K; Alexander, N. (2021). Corporate Governance and Earnings Management: Empirical Evidence of the Distress and Non-Distress Companies, Accounting and Finance Review, 5(4): 23 – 30. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2021.5.4(3)

8 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2021

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Nico Alexander

Trisakti School of Management, Jakarta, Indonesia

Dewi Kurnia Indrastuti

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Theresia Theresia

Trisakti School of Management, Jakarta, Indonesia

Date Written: March 31, 2021

Abstract

Objective - The purpose of this research is to obtain empirical research on the effect of corporate governance on earnings management in distressed and non-distressed companies. Corporate governance in this research is measured by independent board, audit committee, board of commissioners, institutional ownership and number of board commissioner meetings. The research predicts that corporate governance has a negative effect on earnings management either both in distressed and non-distressed companies.

Methodology/Technique - This research uses 309 manufacturing companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange and the data was obtained using purposive sampling method during 2016 until 2018. Of the 309 respondents in the sample, 287 are distressed companies and 22 are non-distressed companies. The data was analyzed using a multiple regression method.

Findings - The empirical results show that commissioner board and institutional ownership have a negative effect on earnings management in non-distressed companies but in distressed companies, corporate governance does not have an effect on earnings management. This research shows that distressed companies, corporate governance cannot minimize earnings management practices because to maintain the company as a going concern, management will do earnings management to ensure stakeholders' trust to encourage further investment in the company. In non-distressed companies, corporate governance can minimize earnings management practices because the company is in a good financial condition, so they don't need to do earnings management. Additionally, in order to ensure stakeholders' trust, the company will strengthen its' corporate governance mechanisms.

Keywords: Financial Distress; Earnings Management; Non-Financial Distress; Indonesia Stock Exchange.

JEL Classification: M41, M43, G34, J33, K22.

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Alexander, Nico and Indrastuti, Dewi Kurnia and Theresia, Theresia, Corporate Governance and Earnings Management: Empirical Evidence of the Distress and Non-Distress Companies (March 31, 2021). Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Theresia; Indrastuti, D. K; Alexander, N. (2021). Corporate Governance and Earnings Management: Empirical Evidence of the Distress and Non-Distress Companies, Accounting and Finance Review, 5(4): 23 – 30. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2021.5.4(3), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3812439
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
190
ABSTRACT VIEWS
824
RANK
364,455
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies