Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure

Posted: 21 Apr 2021

Abdulnaser Nour

An-Najah National University

Date Written: June 1, 2020

Abstract

Developed countries are increasingly concerned about the relationship between corporate governance and corporate social responsibility disclosure while developing countries recently started to take care of this issue. Therefore, the main objective of the study is to examine the effect of the board mechanisms of corporate governance on the extent of social responsibility disclosure of Jordanian public industrial companies during the period (2010 to 2014). In this research, descriptive statistics are used to study variables, both correlation matrix and collinearity diagnostic are used to test whether multicollinearity problem exists. Finally, OLS regression analysis is used to test the hypotheses of the study. The results show that the extent of social responsibility disclosure is positively affected by board size and percentage of women on board, negatively affected by duality and board average age. Board meetings and board composition are insignificant to social responsibility disclosure. The study faces several limitations where the measurement of corporate social responsibility requires human judgment, which is subjective and ambiguous. Furthermore, the study sample was limited to industrial companies. Understanding the relationship between CG and CSR is very important because the CG mechanism is an obligation to protect and improve social, economic, and environment, as well as the welfare of society. CSR elements should be included within the companies’ vision, mission, strategies and daily practices to maximize the shareholder value.

Keywords: Amman Stock Markets, Corporate Governance (CG), Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure (CSRD), Industrial Companies, Jordan

Suggested Citation:

Nour, Abdulnaser, Corporate Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure (June 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3812731
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
514
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies