Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Moderating Effect of Board Independence on the Relationship between Family Ownership and Corporate Sustainability Reporting in Malaysia

Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Aman, Z; Saleh, N; Shukur, Z.A; Jaafar, R. (2021). The Moderating Effect of Board Independence on the Relationship between Family Ownership and Corporate Sustainability Reporting in Malaysia, Accounting and Finance Review, 5(4): 31 – 43. https://doi

13 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2021

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Zainab Aman

Department of Accounting and Finance Kolej Universiti Islam Antarabangsa Selangor 43000 Kajang Selangor Malaysia

Norman Mohd‐Saleh

National University of Malaysia (UKM)

Zaleha Abdul Shukur

Faculty of Economic and Management Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia 43600 Bangi Selangor Malaysia

Romlah Jaafar

Faculty of Economic and Management Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia 43600 Bangi Selangor Malaysia

Date Written: March 31, 2021

Abstract


Objective - The objective of this paper is to investigate the relationship between family ownership and corporate sustainability reporting to determine how the role of board independence affects the relationship between those variables within Malaysian listed companies.

Methodology/Technique - The annual reports of 771 listed companies from 2014 to 2016 were analyzed using content analysis methods. The study uses agency theory to develop the hypotheses.

Findings - The study found that family ownership is negatively related to corporate sustainability reporting. The finding shows that independent directors are unable to influence the relationship between family ownership and corporate sustainability reporting. The findings of this study are expected to provide insight to authorities in relation to the factors that could enhance corporate sustainability reporting primarily in family-owned companies.

Novelty - Previous studies have only focused on environmental and social dimensions of corporate sustainability, whilst this study addresses all the 3 dimensions of sustainability (economic, environmental, and social). This paper is one of the first attempts to investigate the roles of board independence on the relationship between family ownership and corporate sustainability reporting in Malaysia.

Keywords: Sustainability Reporting; Family Ownership; Corporate Governance; Independent Director

JEL Classification: M14, M41.

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Aman, Zainab and Mohd‐Saleh, Norman and Shukur, Zaleha Abdul and Jaafar, Romlah, The Moderating Effect of Board Independence on the Relationship between Family Ownership and Corporate Sustainability Reporting in Malaysia (March 31, 2021). Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Aman, Z; Saleh, N; Shukur, Z.A; Jaafar, R. (2021). The Moderating Effect of Board Independence on the Relationship between Family Ownership and Corporate Sustainability Reporting in Malaysia, Accounting and Finance Review, 5(4): 31 – 43. https://doi, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3812443
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
S N Abdullah , N R Mohamad , M Z Mokhtar
Board independence, ownership and CSR of Malaysian large firms
Corporate Ownership & Control , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 431 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Abd Mutalib , H Muhammad Jamil , C Z Wan Hussin , W N
The availability, extent and quality of sustainability reporting by Malaysian listed firms: Subsequent to mandatory disclosure
Asian Journal of Finance & Accounting , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 239 - 257 Posted: 2014
Crossref
N B J Ahmad , A Rashid , J Gow
Board independence and corporate social responsibility (CSR) reporting in Malaysia
Australasian Accounting, Business and Finance Journal , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 61 - 85 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Acc. Fin. Review , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 31 - 43 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
886
RANK
248,977
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies