Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Financial Performance Measurement Practices in Financial Services Industry: An Agency Theory Approach

28 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2021

Mostaq M. Hussain

UNBSJ

H Gin Chong

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business

Date Written: Jan 12, 2008

Abstract

The literature on management accounting Performance Measurement (PM) focuses on the manufacturing industry, and relatively little emphasis is given on services including Financial Services Industry (FSI) in developing countries. An attempt has been made in this multiple case study to examine PM practices in Omani and US banks within the framework of agency theory. The research results anticipate the higher effect of principal-gent relationship on PM practices in developed country/USA than a developing country, though the usefulness of management accounting in PM is found similar in both developed and developing countries. The concern about the implementation and integration of technology in PM is seemingly a new phenomenon in banks. Such a phenomenon (observed higher in Oman than USA) needs due attention for organizations to enjoy the benefits of PM. Based on the empirical findings some hypotheses are generated, and further research directions are given at the end of this research.

Keywords: Performance Measurement, Financial Services Industry, Oman, USA

JEL Classification: M4; M10; M40

Suggested Citation:

Hussain, Mostaq M. and Chong, H Gin, Non-Financial Performance Measurement Practices in Financial Services Industry: An Agency Theory Approach (Jan 12, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3812000 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3812000
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
M A A M Abernethy , Lillis
The impact of manufacturing flexibility on management control design. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 20 , p. 241 - 258 Posted: 1995
Crossref
S Ansari
An Integrated Approach to Control System Design. Accounting
Organization and Society , volume 2 , p. 101 - 112 Posted: 1977
Crossref
J Ballantine , &amp; S Brignall
A taxonomy of performance measurement framework Posted: 1995
J Ballantine , T J Brignall , S Modell
Performance Measurement and costing in the New Public Sector: some UK and Swedish experiences Posted: 1996-09-23
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
846
RANK
96,304
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies