Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Composition and Workplace Diversity: A Machine Learning Approach

35 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2021

Mikko Ranta

University of Vaasa

Mika Ylinen

University of Vaasa

Date Written: March 25, 2021

Abstract

We examine the predictive value of board gender diversity on workplace diversity and the relative importance of various board and firm characteristics in predicting diversity. With a novel machine learning approach, we measure three workplace diversity variables using a social media data set of approximately 250,000 employee reviews. Our results show that board composition is an important predictor of workplace diversity, and board gender diversity is the most important predictor of the gender equality and inclusiveness dimensions of corporate diversity culture. However, board gender diversity is not found to have significance in predicting age diversity in a company, and overall, firm characteristics are found to be more critical in explaining age diversity. Furthermore, we find that workplace diversity is an important predictor of firm value, indicating a possible channel on how board gender diversity affects firm performance.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Board gender diversity, Machine learning, Workplace diversity

JEL Classification: M14, G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Ranta, Mikko and Ylinen, Mika, Board Composition and Workplace Diversity: A Machine Learning Approach (March 25, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3812296 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3812296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
F Kunze , S A Boehm , H Bruch
Age diversity, age discrimination climate and performance consequences-A cross organizational study
Journal of Organizational Behavior , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 264 - 290 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S R Levine
Diversity confirmed to boost innovation and financial results Posted: 2020
C Liu , Y Chan , S H A Kazmi , H Fu
Financial fraud detection model: Based on random forest
International Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 7 , issue 7 Posted: 2015
Crossref
S M Lundberg , G Erion , H Chen , A Degrave , J M Prutkin , B Nair , R Katz , J Himmelfarb , N Bansal , S.-I Lee
From local explanations to global understanding with explainable AI for trees
Nature Machine Intelligence , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 56 - 67 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Tristan Lim
Environmental, social, and governance (ESG) and artificial intelligence in finance: State-of-the-art and research takeaways
Artificial Intelligence Review , volume 57 , issue 4 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Mikko Ranta , Mika Ylinen , Marko Järvenpää
Machine Learning in Management Accounting Research: Literature Review and Pathways for the Future
European Accounting Review , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 607 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Mika Ylinen , Mikko Ranta
Employee-Friendly Corporate Culture and Firm Performance: Evidence from a Machine Learning Approach
56 Pages · Posted: 29 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 16 Apr 2021 · Downloads: 694
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
302
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,568
RANK
229,982
3 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies