Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Regulation and Financial Performance on the Disclosure of Corporate Social Responsibility and Corporate Reputation Moderated by Ownership Structure

Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Wilestari, M.; Syakhroza, A; Djakman, C.D; Diyanty, V. (2021). The Influence of Regulation and Financial Performance on The Disclosure of Corporate Social Responsibility and Corporate Reputation Moderated by Ownership Structure, Accounting and Finan

10 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2021

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Median Wilestari

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Akhmad Syakhroza

Independent

chaerul d djakman

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Vera Diyanty

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 25, 2021

Abstract


Objective - A study by Ernst and Young (2010) found that 84% of public companies believed that Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) was an activity that had a positive impact on companies. However, only 11% of those companies disclosed their CSR in their annual reports. This article presents the findings of a study examining the effect of CSR regulation and corporate financial performance, as measured by corporate liquidity, profitability, leverage and firm value, on the disclosure level of the CSR of public companies in Indonesia, and its impact on corporate reputation.

Methodology/Technique - Hypothesis tests with multiple regression were used with nonfinancial corporate categories listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange between 2010 to 2018. Purposive sampling was used, with results from 217 sampled companies and 1953 datasets used in the model.

Findings - The study reveals that there is a significant difference in the CSR disclosure of all corporate categories after the regulation of CSR was enacted as a mandatory in 2012. Financial performance measured through Cash Flow from Operations (CFO) and Debt to Equity Ratio (DER) had a positive significant influence on CSR disclosure. However, Return on Assets (ROA) and firm value have no influence. Family ownership as a moderating variable had a negative influence and weakened the association between CFO and CSR disclosure, whereas foreign ownership as a moderating variable had a negative influence and weakened the association between ROA and CSR disclosure. CSR disclosure had a positive influence on corporate reputation from the stakeholders' perception in terms of awards received by the company and the individual stock price index as an alternative measurement for reputation.

Novelty - The impact of CSR disclosure on corporate reputation was analysed based on the alternative measurement of reputation. Ownership structure consisting of family ownership and foreign ownership were taken as the moderating variables in the correlation between financial performance and the disclosure of CSR.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility; Regulation; Financial Performance; Moderation; Ownership Structure Corporate Reputation.

JEL Classification: M14, M41.

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Wilestari, Median and Syakhroza, Akhmad and djakman, chaerul d and Diyanty, Vera, The Influence of Regulation and Financial Performance on the Disclosure of Corporate Social Responsibility and Corporate Reputation Moderated by Ownership Structure (March 25, 2021). Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Wilestari, M.; Syakhroza, A; Djakman, C.D; Diyanty, V. (2021). The Influence of Regulation and Financial Performance on The Disclosure of Corporate Social Responsibility and Corporate Reputation Moderated by Ownership Structure, Accounting and Finan, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3812404
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
614
RANK
436,820
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies