Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Initiatives of Governmental or Intergovernmental Bodies

62 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2021 Last revised: 6 Feb 2024

Alan S. Gutterman

Professional Website

Date Written: February 5, 2024

Abstract

Many companies have looked to sustainability and corporate social responsibility (“CSR”) initiatives of governmental or intergovernmental bodies as the foundation for creating their own CSR commitments. The instruments that have been developed and promoted by the United Nations and the other entities are widely recognized as legitimate standards that have emerged from a careful process of deliberation and input from a wide range of stakeholders with substantial experience in identifying problems and assessing potential solutions. In addition, several countries, including Canada, India and a number of countries in the European Union, have developed sustainability and CSR policies or guidance documents that outline their approach to the topics (see, e.g., National Strategy for Corporate Social Responsibility–Action Plan for CSR–of the German Federal Government).

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, CSR, sustainability standards, sustainability, ESG

Suggested Citation:

Gutterman, Alan S., Sustainability Initiatives of Governmental or Intergovernmental Bodies (February 5, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3813830 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3813830
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
516
RANK
741,762
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies