Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
[Access to Bank Credit and SME Financing. (Case of Kosovo) Paper Title]

14 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2021

Gazmend Nure

Genossenschaftsverband Verband der Region

Date Written: March 27, 2021

Abstract

This study explored the impact of firm and entrepreneurship characteristics such as age, size, manager’s education, business plan, the form of business and gender, on influencing SMEs' access to funding. There are different researchers through their study, evidence that some SMEs may still face difficulties in accessing bank finance. This paper reports an in-depth study into demand issues relating to access to bank finance by Kosovo SMEs and whether there is still a market failure. This paper discusses the ability of SMEs to access debt finance from the commercial banks in Kosovo obtained through questionnaires with 500 SMEs , it reports findings that SMEs had reported having difficulty raising finance and secondary data obtained from magazines, books, and the Internet to review literature. The results show that there is a mutual correlation between firms' ages, business plans, and size and access to credit in Kosovo banks. These characteristics of firms are very important and influential factors in the banks' decision to approve loans required by SMEs. This paper provides some important conclusions for the Kosovo financial system and policymakers to implement SME support and policies.

Keywords: SME lending, loans, investment, lending determinants, banking system

JEL Classification: G20,G21

Suggested Citation:

Nure, Gazmend, [Access to Bank Credit and SME Financing. (Case of Kosovo) Paper Title] (March 27, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3813863 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3813863
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
J Abor
Determinants of the capital structure of Ghanaian firms
Small Business Economics Posted: 2008
C Artola , V Genre
Euro Area SMEs Under Financial Constraints: Belief or Reality?
CESifo Working Paper Series , volume 3650 Posted: 2011-03
D B Audretsch , S Klepper
Innovation, evolution of industry and economic growth : Elgar reference collection. International Library of Critical Writings in economics Posted: 2000
D B Ausretsch , J Elston
Does firma size matter? Evidence on the impact of Liquidity constraint on firm investment behavior in Germany
International Journal of Industrial Organization , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 72 - 74 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
354
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,533
RANK
193,307
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Demographics, Gender & Diversity in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies