Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Framework for Board Oversight of Sustainability

53 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2021

Alan S. Gutterman

Professional Website

Date Written: July 4, 2020

Abstract

Corporate governance is the responsibility of the company’s board of directors, which is charged with designing, implementing and monitoring the structures and processes for the direction and control of the company. The fiduciary duties and responsibilities of directors are derived from a variety of legal and regulatory sources including statutes, case law and rules developed and imposed by securities regulators. This chapter provides an overview of the legal and regulatory standards that must be understood by directors and the steps that must be taken by the entire board to ensure that directors meet the expectations of investors and other stakeholders relating to oversight of sustainability including the establishment of an oversight framework, allocation of responsibilities to board committees, managing the composition of the board and providing directors with adequate and relevant sustainability education and training.

Keywords: sustainability, board of directors, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Gutterman, Alan S., Framework for Board Oversight of Sustainability (July 4, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3813827 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3813827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Alan S Copyright © 2020 By , Gutterman
Information about the author, the Sustainable Entrepreneurship Project (seproject.org) and permitted uses of this Work appears at the end of this Work
Alan S Copyright © 2020 By , Gutterman
Information about the author, the Sustainable Entrepreneurship Project (seproject.org) and permitted uses of this Work appears at the end of this Work
Alan S Copyright © 2020 By , Gutterman
Information about the author, the Sustainable Entrepreneurship Project (seproject.org) and permitted uses of this Work appears at the end of this Work
Alan S Copyright © 2020 By , Gutterman
Information about the author, the Sustainable Entrepreneurship Project (seproject.org) and permitted uses of this Work appears at the end of this Work
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
610
RANK
541,838
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies