Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Legal Form Matter for Firm Performance in the MENA Region?

IZA Discussion Paper No. 14207

32 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2021 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Issam Ahmad

Lebanese American University

Ali Fakih

Lebanese American University

Abstract

This paper attempts to study the relationship between firm legal form and firm performance in the Middle East and North Africa Region (MENA) using the World Bank Enterprise Survey (WBES) database. Our analysis shows that open shareholding, closed shareholding, partnership, and limited partnership companies demonstrate an advantage in terms of annual sales and annual productivity growth rates over sole proprietorship firms, and that medium-sized and large-sized firms also demonstrate an advantage over small ones. Our analysis also shows that foreign ownership, exporting activities, the usage of the web in communication with clients and suppliers, and the presence of full-time workers positively affect firm performance. These findings are robust when running the analysis for firms with female participation in ownership. This paper provides directions for strategists targeting at improving the performance of firms.

Keywords: MENA region, firm performance, legal form

JEL Classification: C10, G30, L25

Suggested Citation:

Ahmad, Issam and Fakih, Ali, Does the Legal Form Matter for Firm Performance in the MENA Region?. IZA Discussion Paper No. 14207, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3813634
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
S Altuntas , O Cinar , S Kaynak
Relationships among advanced manufacturing technology, innovation, export, and firm performance
Kybernetes , volume 47 , issue 9 , p. 1836 - 1856 Posted: 2018
T Beck , A Demirguc-Kunt
Small and medium-size enterprises: Access to finance as a growth constraint
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 30 , issue 11 , p. 2931 - 2943 Posted: 2006
M Bennouri , T Chtioui , H Nagati , M Nekhili
Female board directorship and firm performance: What really matters?
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 88 , p. 267 - 291 Posted: 2018
I Bertschek , T Niebel
Mobile and more productive? Firm-level evidence on the productivity effects of mobile internet use
Telecommunications Policy , volume 40 , issue 9 , p. 888 - 898 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
438
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies