Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-financial Reporting: Substance over Form

Controllo di Gestione Journal, (ISSN 1828-4205), IPSOA, n. 6, pp. 5-17, 2019

Posted: 12 Apr 2021

Matteo Molinari

University of Bergamo - University of Bergamo,; University of Roehampton

Jonida Carungu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

The introduction of the non-financial statement among the corporate reporting documents has called numerous companies to deal with a new way of reporting own performance on mandatory or voluntarily basis, which goes beyond the traditional accounting data.

This regulatory evolution is the result of some best practices that the most virtuous companies already had previously adopted, and it represents an incentive for all other companies to review and reorient their accounting and reporting systems.

This paper examines the first non-financial statements issued by the Italian companies, obliged by the EU Directive and corresponding Italian law to disclose on non-financial matters. The paper aims to grasp some general trends on non-financial reporting, and to deepen some peculiarities deriving from the adoption of the non-financial reporting legislation.

Keywords: Non-financial Reporting, Sustainability Reporting, Sustainability Accounting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Molinari, Matteo and Carungu, Jonida, Non-financial Reporting: Substance over Form (2019). Controllo di Gestione Journal, (ISSN 1828-4205), IPSOA, n. 6, pp. 5-17, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3813581
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
397
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies