Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wrongful Discharge Laws and Asymmetric Cost Behavior

52 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2021

Yongtae Kim

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Siqi Li

Santa Clara University

Hyungshin Park

Kennesaw State University - Michael J. Coles College of Business

Date Written: January 1, 2020

Abstract

Exploiting the natural experiment created by the adoption of wrongful discharge laws (WDLs)
across U.S. states, we examine the effect of legal protection against unjust employment
termination on firm-level cost behavior. We find that the adoption of WDLs increases the
asymmetric sensitivity of costs to activity (i.e., cost stickiness). The effect of WDLs on cost
stickiness varies across firms and industries, as well as by adoption timing and multiplicity. Our
evidence suggests that changes in the state-level legal environment have a significant effect on
firm-level resource adjustment decisions and asymmetric cost behavior.

Keywords: cost stickiness; asymmetric cost behavior; wrongful discharge laws; employment laws; labor adjustment costs

JEL Classification: E20, J30, K31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Yongtae and Li, Siqi and Park, Hyungshin, Wrongful Discharge Laws and Asymmetric Cost Behavior (January 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3813326 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3813326
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
V Acharya , R Baghai , K Subramanian
Wrongful discharge laws and innovation
Review of Financial Studies , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 301 - 346 Posted: 2014
Crossref
A K Agrawal , D A Matsa
Labor unemployment risk and corporate financing decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 2 , p. 449 - 470 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Anderson , R Banker , S Janakiraman
Are selling, general, and administrative costs 'sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Anderson , R Banker , R Huang , S Janakiraman
Cost behavior and fundamental analysis of SG&A costs
Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance , volume 22 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
812
RANK
456,571
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies