Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Statutory Tax Rates on the CEO Performance-Turnover Relation

52 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2021

Adam Manlove

Belk College of Business; Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Casey M. Schwab

University of North Texas

Bridget Stomberg

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: February 28, 2021

Abstract

Although theory predicts boards should replace underperforming CEOs, archival studies estimate that CEO underperformance has only a modest effect on turnover. Higher corporate statutory tax rates increase the sharing of corporate profits and losses with the government, partially shielding shareholders from the consequences of CEO underperformance and reducing the expected net after-tax benefits of improved performance by a replacement CEO. Thus, we predict higher corporate tax rates contribute to the modest documented effect of CEO performance on turnover. We use the corporate tax rate reduction enacted by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act to test our prediction. Consistent with expectations, we estimate an increased sensitivity of CEO turnover to firm performance after the Tax Cuts and Job Act. Furthermore, this increased sensitivity is stronger among firms for which the expected net after-tax benefits of replacing an underperforming CEO are greatest either because the firms expect a larger gross benefit from the rate reduction or have lower estimated replacement costs. Our study extends the literature on CEO turnover and suggests statutory tax rates are an important friction in the CEO replacement decision.

Keywords: CEO turnover; corporate income taxes; Tax Cuts and Jobs Act

Suggested Citation:

Manlove, Adam and Schwab, Casey M. and Stomberg, Bridget, The Effect of Statutory Tax Rates on the CEO Performance-Turnover Relation (February 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3813578 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3813578
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A J Auerbach
Who bears the corporate tax? A review of what we know
Tax Policy and the Economy , volume 20 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J Beck
The Touchy Subject of CEO Dismissal
BetterBoards.net. Available Posted: 2017
M D Beneish , C D Marshall , J Yang
Explaining CEO retention in misreporting firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 123 , issue 3 , p. 512 - 535 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,037
RANK
499,012
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies