Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Tax Policy and Dividend Payout of Food and Beverages Firms in Nigeria

European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research, Vol.9, No. 3, pp.20-34, 2021

15 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2021

Tunde Obafemi

Federal Polytechnic, Offa

Felix Ebun Araoye

Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH) - Department of Management and Accounting

Emmanuel Olusuyi Ajayi

Bells University of Technology - Department of Accounting, Economics and Finance

Date Written: March 28, 2021

Abstract

This study examined the effect of dividend tax policy on dividend payout in selected Nigerian food and beverages firms. The study employed a cross-sectional approach using both explanatory and exploratory design. Fifteen out of twenty one quoted food and beverages firms on the Nigeria stock exchange (NSE) as at December 2018 were randomly selected to constitute the study sample. Four hundred copies of structural questionnaire were distributed but only three hundred and twenty copies were correctly completed and useful for the analysis. The study revealed that dividend tax policy was significant on a dividend payout (f-statistic =27.52; p=0.000) with R-square =0.285. When the moderation variable effect (inflation) was considered, it was also found that dividend tax policy influenced dividend payout of the selected firms (F-statistic=15.89; p=0.000).The study further revealed that tax policy has significant effect on dividend payout in the selected firms. The study therefore recommended that management of firms should adopt more of stock dividend policy than cash concluded payout.


Keywords: dividend, tax policy, food and beverages, dividend payout, Nigeria

Suggested Citation:

Obafemi, Tunde and Araoye, Felix Ebun and Ajayi, Emmanuel Olusuyi, Dividend Tax Policy and Dividend Payout of Food and Beverages Firms in Nigeria (March 28, 2021). European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research, Vol.9, No. 3, pp.20-34, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3814194 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3814194
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
A Abdul , L Muhibudeen
Relationship between dividend payout and firms' performance: Evaluation of dividend policy of Oando Plc
International Journal of Contemporary Applied Sciences , volume 2 , issue 6 , p. 56 - 71 Posted: 2015
O J Adelegan
Price Reactions to Dividend Announcements on the Nigerian Stock Market. African Economic Research Consortium Research Paper 188 Posted: 2009
O J Adelegan
An Empirical Analysis of the Relationship Between Cash Flows and Dividend Changes Posted: 2009
Crossref
O J Adelegan , E Inanga
A Contextual Analysis of the Determinants of Dividend Patterns of Commercial Banks in Nigeria Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
515
RANK
517,938
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies