Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Accounting Practice in Micro and Small Enterprises: Evidence from Ethiopia

11 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2021

Enyew Mulu

Mekdela Amba University

Date Written: October 20, 2020

Abstract

This study assesses the factors determining accounting recordkeeping practices among micro and small enterprises in Ethiopia's South Western Wollo region. It has been noted that, despite the enormous importance of accounting recordkeeping, the practice is still inadequate in micro and small businesses. This study used cross- sectional primary data collected from 343 micro and small enterprises. An ordered logistic regression analysis method was employed to analyze the explanatory variable's effect (education level, number of employees, frequency of transactions, size of the firm, and age of the firm) on micro and small enterprises' accounting practice. The study results show that the education level, the number of employees, the frequency of transactions, and the firm's size have a statistically significant and positive effect on the accounting practice of micro and small enterprises. On the other hand, the firm's age is found to have no statistically significant effect on micro and small enterprises' accounting practice. This study helps micro and small enterprises by showing the significant factors that affect their accounting practice and working towards better reporting and decision-making habits.

Keywords: Determinants of Accounting Practice, Ordered Logistic Regression, Micro and Small Enterprise in Ethiopia

JEL Classification: L26, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Mulu, Enyew, Determinants of Accounting Practice in Micro and Small Enterprises: Evidence from Ethiopia (October 20, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3815633 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3815633
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
F Aboagye-Otchere , J Agbeibor
The International Financial Reporting Standard for Small and Medium-sized Entities (IFRS for SMEs): Suitability for small Ghana businesses
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 190 - 214 Posted: 2012
Crossref
K Ahmad , S M Zabri
Factors explaining the use of management accounting practices in Malaysian medium-sized firms
Journal of Small Business and Enterprise Development , volume 229 , issue 4 , p. 762 - 781 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A E Amare , A Raghurama
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) Development Strategies in Ethiopia: Retrospective and Prospective Analysis
International Journal of Commerce , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 11 - 20 Posted: 2017
G K Amoako
Accounting practices of SMEs: A case study of Kumasi Metropolis in Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
916
RANK
289,981
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies