Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Boycotts

57 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2021 Last revised: 3 Jul 2022

H. Scott Asay

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Jake Thornock

Brigham Young University

Jaron H. Wilde

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: July 2, 2022

Abstract

To what extent do consumers boycott in response to corporate tax activities? Anecdotes suggest potential consumer backlash is a meaningful deterrent to corporate tax planning, and the tax literature has developed expectations that these boycotts happen. But empirical evidence on their existence and impact is limited. We undertake a comprehensive study to examine how consumers’ purchase behavior relates to corporate tax activities, triangulating across several designs, samples, and measures. First, we survey a representative sample of U.S. consumers to examine the reported relationship between corporate tax planning and consumer behavior; we find that consumers report that precisely zero have ever boycotted a firm because of tax planning. Next, we use a granular dataset of retail scanner data to directly observe consumer purchase activity and find no consumer purchase response to negative tax news. Next, we use GPS location data to examine individual foot traffic activity at retail establishments and find little evidence that consumers change their shopping activities in response to tax news. Finally, we conduct several supplementary analyses investigating the potential consumer responses related to other corporate events. The combined evidence does not support tax boycotts as a meaningful consumer response to corporate tax activities, despite managers’ expressed concerns of tarnished consumer reputations related to firms’ tax decisions.

Keywords: tax boycotts, corporate tax activities, consumer survey, scanner data, foot traffic

JEL Classification: H25, M31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Asay, Hamilton Scott and Hoopes, Jeffrey L. and Thornock, Jacob and Wilde, Jaron H., Tax Boycotts (July 2, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3815192 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3815192
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
C Armstrong , J D Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality Redux: The Evolution of Empirical Methods in Accounting Research and the Growth of Quasi-Experiments. Forthcoming
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2022
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An Examination of Reputational Costs and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Firms with Valuable Consumer Brands
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2016
B C Ayers , J K Seidman , E Towery
Taxpayer Behavior under Audit Certainty
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 326 - 358 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,200
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,122
RANK
40,355
9 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies