Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Formation of Organizational Forms of Internal Control and Audit

Journal of Management Practices, Humanities and Social Sciences, Vol 4 Issue 2 pp. 50-54, 2020

5 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2021

Nino Pailodze

Georgian Technical University

Rusudan Kutateladze

Georgian Technical University

Tornike Dzagnidze

Georgian Technical University

Date Written: March 30, 2020

Abstract

Relevance of the topic is related to the fact that the creation and development of internal audit function are connected to the creation and development of joint-stock companies caused by post-soviet privatization of property in Georgia. The evolution of the Joint Stock Company facilitated the development of organizational forms of control and internal audit among them. As in the rest of the world, the most important form of big business is a Joint Stock Company (corporation) that features segregation of management and ownership functions, complicated organizational structure, joint interests of parties of corporate relations, and influence of malty-granular consolidated factors. The methodological basis of the work has become the general and specific scientific method of understanding economic events and facts, namely: separately the methods used for analysis and synthesis, since these two have included economic and statistical analysis. Key Findings are a system of quantitative and qualitative indicators that expresses the economic interests and control parameters of a group of corporate governance entities. It will help to evaluate the level of performance of the analytical facility using the paired comparison method. Modern businesses operate in fast-changing market conditions with high level of uncertainty and high risks that make corporate governance more difficult, making company management less capable to respond swiftly and competently to growing challenges. Internal Audit so far is an unappreciated instrument of corporate governance. The formation of internal audit structures in companies promotes the safety of management and proprietors, determines the greatest risk zones, and protects the company from future errors and shortcomings. In addition, internal audit facilitates the identification of weaknesses and finding the principles of management that have been violated. A fairly effective system of corporate governance and control gives the opportunity to make private investments, including those that are not very large. The existence of an internal audit in the economic entities is especially important to the business owners since they are distant from direct management; they are concentrated on the strategic management, and operation’s management controls are handed over to the company management.

Suggested Citation:

Pailodze, Nino and Kutateladze, Rusudan and Dzagnidze, Tornike, Formation of Organizational Forms of Internal Control and Audit (March 30, 2020). Journal of Management Practices, Humanities and Social Sciences, Vol 4 Issue 2 pp. 50-54, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3815547
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
443
RANK
759,678
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies