Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
COVID-19, Public Policies and Corporate Survival: The Role of Accounting Information and Regulation in the Wake of a Systemic Crisis

50 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2021

Bruno Buchetti

University of Padua - Department of Economics and Management ; European Central Bank (ECB)

Antonio Parbonetti

University of Padua

Amedeo Pugliese

University of Padova - Department of Economics and Management

Date Written: March 31, 2021

Abstract

The economic crisis triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic prompted governments to take immediate actions and launch a bundle of relief mechanisms to hold up companies and workers. This study analyzes the role of accounting information and regulation in supporting policy-makers in the wake of a systemic crisis in two ways: first, by clarifying how accounting information enables an in-depth appreciation of the key issues facing corporations (e.g. profitability and equity depletion, alongside liquidity), thus paving the way for the design of relief mechanisms; second, by discussing the benefits and risks of temporary changes to accounting rules perused by governments. Towards these aims, we analyze the effects of the recent health crisis on profitability and equity shortfalls for a large sample of 580,874 privately-held Italian firms; our findings suggest that the number of distressed firms - whose equity falls below legal requirements - increase from 11% in 2019 to 26% in 2020, absent any government interventions. Altogether these firms employ almost 1.4 millions of employees and have total exposure towards the financial system, net of short term assets, equal to € 65 billions. We then forecast the effects of four relief mechanisms introduced by the Italian government to mitigate losses and equity depletions and find that the interventions offer a safety net for about 24% of firms otherwise in distress. Last, the study contributes to the debate on the role of accounting information and regulation in the wake of systemic crisis by (a) highlighting and discussing the effects of temporary changes to accounting rules on the informativeness and transparency of financial statements, and (b) suggesting alternative ways to modify accounting rules to avoid large corporate losses and equity depletions yet ensuring forward looking informativeness of financial statements once the crisis tapers.

Keywords: COVID-19, Accounting Regulation, Equity depletion; Systemic Crisis; Corporate Bankruptcy; Public Policies

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Buchetti, Bruno and Parbonetti, Antonio and Pugliese, Amedeo, COVID-19, Public Policies and Corporate Survival: The Role of Accounting Information and Regulation in the Wake of a Systemic Crisis (March 31, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3816503 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3816503
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
M D Amore , V Pelucco , F Quarato
Posted: 2020
Crossref
Jonathan Gray
Democratising the Data Revolution: A Discussion Paper
Pages: 7 Posted: 10 Oct 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Anderson , F Papadia , N Véron
Government-guaranteed bank lending: beyond the headline numbers
Bruegel Blog , issue 1 Posted: 2020-07-14
Inps Bank Of Italy , D Cecchi , F Di Nicola , E Di Porto , P Naticchioni , G Bovini , E Viviano
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,346
RANK
312,896
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies