Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Equity Crowdfunding and Offering Page Disclosure

Aland, John M. "Equity Crowdfunding and Offering Page Disclosure." Journal of Financial Reporting 8, no. 2 (2023): 25-53.

53 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2021 Last revised: 14 Dec 2023

John Aland

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Date Written: March 8, 2023

Abstract

This paper provides descriptive evidence about how startup firms communicate with investors on their Regulation Crowdfunding offering page. I find evidence, consistent with prior theory about processing costs and information salience, that a firm’s prior revenues relate strongly to the discussion of financial information on its offering page. This runs counter to indications from Reg CF founders that they think financial information is of less importance to these investors than other information about the company. Consistent with founder beliefs that investors place little weight on firm financials, I find no consistent relation between financial disclosure and a firm meeting its offering goal. Offering success appears more closely related to other elements of disclosure that tell the “story” of the company. The results of this paper can help inform future research in the crowdfunding space, as well as contribute to the literature on how investors process information and disclosure.

Keywords: Equity Crowdfunding, Regulation Crowdfunding, Voluntary Disclosure

JEL Classification: G23, G24, M13, M41

Suggested Citation:

Aland, John, Equity Crowdfunding and Offering Page Disclosure (March 8, 2023). Aland, John M. "Equity Crowdfunding and Offering Page Disclosure." Journal of Financial Reporting 8, no. 2 (2023): 25-53., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3816720 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3816720
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Eliot Abrams
Securities crowdfunding: more than family, friends, and fools?
Friends, and Fools Posted: 2017
Gerrit Kc Ahlers , Douglas Cumming , Christina Günther , Denis Schweizer
Signaling in equity crowdfunding
Entrepreneurship theory and practice , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 955 - 980 Posted: 2015
Ajay K Agrawal , Christian Catalini , Avi Goldfarb
The geography of crowdfunding Posted: 2011
Ajay Agrawal , Christian Catalini , Avi Goldfarb
Some simple economics of crowdfunding
Innovation policy and the economy , volume 14 , p. 63 - 97 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,343
RANK
256,420
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies