Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ancestral Connections and Corporate Alliances

64 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2021 Last revised: 15 Jul 2023

Yihui Pan

University of Utah - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Xiaoxia Peng

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Date Written: December 1, 2020

Abstract

This paper studies how culture works as an implicit incentive alignment mechanism in corporate alliances. We measure the ancestral connection between different corporate headquarters places, using historical immigration from different countries to different areas of the U. S. When forming business alliances, the ancestral composition of the area where firms locate plays an important role in their choices of partners and the location of new ventures. Exploiting immigration to U.S. cities induced by WWI and the immigration acts of the 1920s, we find that ancestral connection driven by the supply-push component of historical immigrant inflows is associated with an increase in alliance intensity today. Finally, partnering firms experience significantly better performance when the ancestral connection between their headquarters or between their inventors is stronger. Shared values and beliefs between firms’ key stakeholders likely underlie the role of ancestral connection.

Keywords: Ancestral connection, alliances, implicit norms

JEL Classification: G30, G40, M14, Z1

Suggested Citation:

Pan, Yihui and Peng, Xiaoxia, Ancestral Connections and Corporate Alliances (December 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3816151 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3816151
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
B K Adhikari , A Agrawal
Does local religiosity matter for bank risk-taking?
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 38 , p. 272 - 293 Posted: 2016
R Aggarwal , M Faccio , O Guedhami , C C Kwok
Culture and finance: An introduction
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 100 , issue 41 , p. 466 - 474 Posted: 2016
A Alesina , La Ferrara , E
Ethnic diversity and economic performance
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 762 - 800 Posted: 2005
B C Ayers , S Ramalingegowda , P E Yeung
Hometown advantage: The effects of monitoring institution location on financial reporting discretion
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 61 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,630
RANK
271,899
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies