Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Innovation, Institutions, and Social Change in Peer-to-Peer Lending: Evidence from China

38 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2021

Daniel Cosgrove

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Imran Chowdhury

Catawba College

Date Written: March 2021

Abstract

In this chapter, we focus on the development of the peer-to-peer (“P2P”) lending industry in China. As a modern borrowing platform, peer-to-peer lending allows clients to obtain funding from peer lenders for a multitude of loan purposes, including credit consolidation, personal purchases, and the development of business ventures. However, the speed at which this industry has grown has created numerous problems for regulatory agencies, particularly in China, the largest peer-to-peer lending market in the world. Our chapter examines how lenders in the Chinese context continue to function as formal institutions regulating this sector continue to grow following a series of highly-publicized illegal lending activities in recent years. Additionally, we determine whether implemented regulatory measures are providing an overall benefit or detriment to the Chinese P2P lending industry. Finally, we highlight the potential for positive social change and social entrepreneurship arising from P2P lending, particularly in terms of the empowerment of traditionally disadvantaged groups by providing access to capital. We use the peer-to-peer lending industry in the United States, currently the second-largest in the world and one operating in a highly-regulated financial industry, as a comparison for the Chinese case.

Keywords: Peer-to-Peer Lending, Fintech, Institutions, Social Entrepreneurship, Social Innovation, China

JEL Classification: F63, L1, O31, O53, M13, M14, M16

Suggested Citation:

Cosgrove, Daniel and Chowdhury, Imran, Innovation, Institutions, and Social Change in Peer-to-Peer Lending: Evidence from China (March 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3816708 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3816708
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Z Bergman , M M Bergman , B Liu , J Zhang
The Roots of Corporate Philanthropy in China
Journal of International Business Ethics , volume 8 , p. 3 - 27 Posted: 2015
G Bruton , S Khavul , D Siegel , M Wright
New Financial Alternatives in Seeding Entrepreneurship: Microfinance, Crowdfunding, and Peer-to-Peer Innovations
Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice , volume 39 , p. 9 - 26 Posted: 2015
Crossref
China arrests 62 suspects abroad, $1.5 billion seized in P2P crackdown Posted: 2019-02-18
China Online Consumer Finance Industry Posted: 2017-12-19
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
958
RANK
552,669
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies