Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investors’ Judgment and Decisions after a Cybersecurity Breach: Understanding the Value Relevance of Cybersecurity Risk Management Assurance

52 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2021

Patricia Navarro

University of Nevada Las Vegas; Norwegian School of Economics

Steve G. Sutton

University of Central Florida; NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Date Written: February 1, 2021

Abstract

This study investigates how voluntary cybersecurity risk management (CyRM) assurance affects non-professional investors’ judgments and decisions. The study also examines how the value relevance of CyRM assurance is altered when having such assurance is expected/unexpected. Employing an experimental approach, we find that after a cyber-breach occurs, companies previously engaging in voluntary CyRM assurance receive more favorable investor assessments of management credibility and, in turn, higher stock valuations. We also find that investors’ assessments of management credibility and stock valuations are more extreme for companies that engage (do not engage) in CyRM assurance in industries where such assurance is not (is) the norm. This study begins to address the question of whether there is a demand for CyRM assurance offered by audit firms, particularly given lingering concerns in research and practice as to the viability of IT-related assurance services. Our research reinforces the profession’s position that management and boards need to recognize that cyber risk will differ by industry and that investors will react to violations of implicit industry standards for cyber risk management. The results also demonstrate the value to management credibility of having prior CyRM assurance after a cyber-breach; the reputation and damage control is important for both management and the company.

Keywords: cybersecurity, cyber risk management, voluntary assurance, investors’ judgments and decisions

JEL Classification: G11, G32, M42

Suggested Citation:

Navarro, Patricia and Sutton, Steve G. and Sutton, Steve G., Investors’ Judgment and Decisions after a Cybersecurity Breach: Understanding the Value Relevance of Cybersecurity Risk Management Assurance (February 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3817763 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3817763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
Cybersecurity Risk Management Program Examination Engagements Posted: 2017-01-19
SOC for cybersecurity: a backgrounder Posted: 2017
V Arnold , A Triki
Use of student and online participants in behavioral accounting research
The Routledge Companion to Behavioral Research in Accounting Posted: 2017
Crossref
H S Asay , W B Elliott , K Rennekamp
Disclosure Readability and the Sensitivity of Investors' Valuation Judgments to Outside Information
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
364
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,424
RANK
187,370
7 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies