Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When is the lack of a goodwill impairment informative?

49 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2021 Last revised: 4 Jan 2023

Henry Laurion

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Accounting

Scott A Robinson

University of Oregon - Charles H. Lundquist School of Business

Frances M. Tice

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 3, 2023

Abstract

Among firms with depressed equity market values, we examine the conditions under which the lack of a goodwill impairment conveys positive value relevant information to investors. Prior research attributes these non-impairments to managerial opportunism, on average. However, practitioners argue that the managers’ decision to not impair goodwill can signal that managers expect firm value to rebound. We re-examine the informational value of goodwill non-impairments using a novel empirical design, which defines a justified non-impairment as one where the equity market value recovers above book value within one year. We find about half of non-impairments are justified based on ex post stock price recovery. To examine whether this is by chance or because the non-impairments are reliable accounting decisions that reflect managers’ private information, we show that these stock price recoveries are more frequent among firms with strong external monitoring and where managers are more likely to possess private information about firm value. We also find that investors react positively to these non-impairment announcements, particularly when non-impairments are expected to be reliable accounting decisions. Finally, we utilize two novel control groups to isolate the informational value of goodwill non-impairment decisions. Overall, our study offers evidence that goodwill non-impairment decisions can reflect informative managerial behavior.

Keywords: Goodwill impairment, Private information, Accounting discretion, Fair value accounting

JEL Classification: C23, D22, G32, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Laurion, Henry and Robinson, Scott and Tice, Frances M., When is the lack of a goodwill impairment informative? (January 3, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3817765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3817765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A Aaron , M Binz , P Patel , A Pike
, volume 70 Posted: 2019
N Aktas , E D Bodt , H Bollaert , R Roll
CEO narcissism and the takeover process: From private initiation to deal completion
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 137 Posted: 2016
P Asquith , M B Mikhail , A S Au
Information content of equity analyst reports
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 75 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 282 Posted: 2005
P C Austin
An introduction to propensity score methods for reducing the effects of confounding in observational studies
Multivariate Behavioral Research , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 399 - 424 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
295
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,565
RANK
235,846
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies