Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Venture Financing and Venture Capital `Funding Hole'

51 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2021

Amiya Basu

Syracuse University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 2, 2021

Abstract

An entrepreneur usually chooses to receive seed funding for a new project from an angel investor (angel) or a venture capitalist (VC), a choice complicated by the implications of follow-on financing required at the next stage of the venture. The size of the follow-on round is typically much larger than the seed round and the first-stage investors, including the angel almost certainly, and the VC with a significant probability, do not extend follow-on financing. A project released by the original investor faces unfavorable valuation risk from a new financier at the second stage due to asymmetric information, and may even be denied funding and disappear into a ``funding hole." We show theoretically and empirically that the risks are asymmetric for initially angel-funded and initially VC-funded but otherwise identical projects. The risk is elevated with initially VC-backed projects because the original venture capitalist is presumed to decline further financing to all negative-NPV projects in her stable, along with some positive-NPV projects depending on her other opportunities, while an angel declines in all cases. Thus, a positive-NPV project released by a VC enters a diluted pool with more negative-NPV projects than a project released by an angel. On the other hand, the original venture capitalist adds value to all projects in the first period with her guidance and advice and projects that receive follow-on funding have no valuation risk due to asymmetric information. We show that an entrepreneur should choose seed funding from a VC when the follow-on rate of the VC is low or high, but select angel financing for intermediate follow-on rates. We examine seed fundings by the top US angel investors and venture capitalists from 2010-2015 and show that projects released by venture capitalists are less successful raising funds after release, and that follow-on rates by venture capitalists tend to be either high or low, supporting our theoretical findings. Our results are new to the existing literature and offer interesting implications, including that angel financing and VC financing are sometimes complementary, and not always substitutes as in conventional thinking. Angel financing may rescue an entrepreneur when VC financing leads to a funding hole.

Keywords: angel investor, venture capital, seed funding, follow-on financing

JEL Classification: G23, D82, D86

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Amiya, New Venture Financing and Venture Capital `Funding Hole' (April 2, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3818268 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3818268
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
E Alvarez-Garrido
Move-in ready or Fixer-Upper? VC Specialization and Start-up Innovation
Strategy Science Posted: 2022
J Bettignie , J Brander
Financing entrepreneurship: Bank finance versus venture capital
Journal of Business Venturing , volume 22 , p. 808 - 832 Posted: 2007
C Casamatta
Financing and Advising: Optimal Financial Contracts with Venture Capitalists
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 5 , p. 2059 - 2085 Posted: 2003
T J Chemmanur , Z Chen
Venture Capitalists Versus Angels: The Dynamics of Private Firm Financing Contracts , volume 3 , p. 39 - 86 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
908
RANK
394,837
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies