Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Ratio Analysis as a Device for Predicting Financial Distress

7 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2021

Syaiful Baharee Jaafar

Politeknik Tuanku Sultanah Bahiyah

Asmidar Salleh

Politeknik Tuanku Sultanah Bahiyah

Hasmawazi Hamzah

Politeknik Tuanku Sultanah Bahiyah

Date Written: April 2, 2021

Abstract

[Shareholder invested in the company with the goal of enhancing wealth through a better dividend. Therefore, company performance is a priority among shareholder for decision making either to remaining investment or withdrawal. Better performance is linked to better financial management through which all liabilities are able to pay. It is very important for companies to go through financial ratio analysis to predict financial distress in order to avoid the company's bankruptcy. Early action may be taken if the financial ratio analysis indicates the company is facing a financial crisis. This prevents any crisis between company and shareholder. A company that is able to determine the company's capacity to meet the obligation using a liquidity ratio. Moreover, the leverage ratio measures the efficiency of companies in utilizing their resources to generate sales. The performance was monitored to align the objectives of the company and the shareholders in a similar way, so the profitability ratio is very useful as indicated

Keywords: Financial statement, Financials distress, Shareholder

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jaafar, Syaiful Baharee and Salleh, Asmidar and Hamzah, Hasmawazi, Financial Ratio Analysis as a Device for Predicting Financial Distress (April 2, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3818116 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3818116
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
E I Altman , R G Haldeman , P Narayanan
Zeta Analysis: A new model to identify bankruptcy risk of corporations
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 1 , p. 9 - 24 Posted: 1977
Crossref
J K Bae
Predicting financial distress of the South Korean manufacturing industries
Expert Systems with Applications , volume 39 , issue 10 Posted: 2012
Crossref
B Baimwera
The relationship between book-to-market ratio of equity and distress for stocks quoted at the NSE Posted: 2006
A Bhunia , Khan , S Mukhuti
A Study of Managing Liquidity
Journal of Management Research , volume 3 , issue 3 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,069
RANK
37,311
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies