Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Brand Value of Earnings: An Event Study of Consumer Responses to Earnings Announcements

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2021 Last revised: 30 Oct 2023

Michael D. Kimbrough

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Neeru Paharia

Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

Sijing Wei

Creighton University - Heider College of Business

Xu (Frank) Wang

Saint Louis University - Chaifetz School of Business

Date Written: October 23, 2023

Abstract

We provide evidence from the first short-window event study of consumers’ perceptual responses to earnings announcements, using daily consumer perception data. We document a positive association between the change in consumers’ overall perception of a brand at the time of the earnings announcement and the earnings surprise—that is, a positive consumer earnings response coefficient (CERC). CERC is larger when there is greater traditional news or social media activity, indicating that news dissemination is an important channel for consumers to respond to earnings news. Moreover, CERC varies based on brand and consumer characteristics. Changes in consumer perceptions at the time of the earnings announcement are positively associated with changes in purchase consideration and intent and with changes in realized future sales growth. To maximize identification, we document a positive and statistically significant CERC in a controlled experiment. Our findings demonstrate the importance of earnings to an important stakeholder.

Keywords: consumer earnings response coefficient (CERC), earnings surprise, consumer perceptions, event study, external stakeholders, brand value, real effects, sales growth

JEL Classification: M31, M41, G14

Suggested Citation:

Kimbrough, Michael D. and Paharia, Neeru and Wei, Sijing and Wang, Xu (Frank), The Brand Value of Earnings: An Event Study of Consumer Responses to Earnings Announcements (October 23, 2023). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3818970
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An Examination of Reputational Costs and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Firms with Valuable Consumer Brands
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
A Axjonow , J Ernstberger , C Pott
The Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure on Corporate Reputation: A Non-Professional Stakeholder Perspective
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 151 , issue 2 , p. 429 - 450 Posted: 2018
S P Baginski , J M Hassell , M D Kimbrough
Why do managers explain their earnings forecasts?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2004
R P Bagozzi
The role of arousal in the creation and control of the halo effect in attitude models
Psychology & Marketing , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 235 - 264 Posted: 1996
Load more
3 Citations
Suzie Noh , Eric C. So , Christina Zhu
Financial Reporting and Consumer Behavior
Jacobs Levy Equity Management Center for Quantitative Financial Research Paper · 60 Pages · Posted: 28 Sep 2021 · Last revised: 16 Aug 2024 · Downloads: 3,075
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Konstantinos Bozos , Jie Chen , Yang Gao , Xuan Tian , Jiayi Yuan
Do Consumers Care about Pay Inequality? Evidence from Household Purchase Data
Kilts Center at Chicago Booth Marketing Data Center Paper, Leeds University Business School Working Paper, PBCSF-NIFR Research Paper · 50 Pages · Posted: 31 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 431
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Seung Lee , Ivan Marinovic
A Theory of Disclosure Timing
Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 5149287 · 59 Pages · Posted: 25 Feb 2025 · Last revised: 6 Aug 2025 · Downloads: 138
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
516
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,989
RANK
124,786
3 Citations
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies