Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Philanthropy and Corporate Misconduct: Evidence from China

Chen, J., Dong, W., Tong, Y., & Zhang, F. 2020. Corporate philanthropy and corporate misconduct: Evidence from China. International Review of Economics & Finance, 65: 17-31.

43 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2021

Jun Chen

Zhejiang University

Wang Dong

Zhejiang University - School of Management

Jamie Tong

The University of Queensland

Feida Zhang

China Europe International Business School (CEIBS); University of Queensland - Accounting and Accountability

Date Written: April 4, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the association between corporate philanthropy and corporate misconduct. Using panel data from China, we find a negative relationship between philanthropic engagement and the likelihood of subsequent corporate misconduct. In addition, we find that the favorable effect of philanthropy on corporate misconduct is stronger when a company’s philanthropic giving is more sustained, when a company is located in a region with a stronger external institutional environment, and when a company is not a state-owned enterprise. Our results suggest that companies engaging in philanthropy have incentives to enhance their reputations and build their relationships with stakeholders. Our research extends the extant literature on corporate misconduct by identifying a new antecedent relating to corporate philanthropy and provides valuable insights for practitioners in terms of how to assess and predict the link between corporate philanthropy and the likelihood of its subsequent misconduct.

Keywords: Corporate philanthropy; Corporate misconduct; Institutional environment; SOE; China

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Jun and Dong, Wang and Tong, Jamie Yixing and Zhang, Feida, Corporate Philanthropy and Corporate Misconduct: Evidence from China (April 4, 2021). Chen, J., Dong, W., Tong, Y., & Zhang, F. 2020. Corporate philanthropy and corporate misconduct: Evidence from China. International Review of Economics & Finance, 65: 17-31., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3819132
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
R Abzug , N J Webb
Rational and extra-rational motivations for corporate giving: Complementing economic theory with organization science
NYL Sch. L. Rev , volume 41 Posted: 1996
R Andergassen
Managerial compensation, product market competition and fraud
International Review of Economics & Finance , volume 45 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2016
Crossref
K B Backhaus , Stone , Ba , K Heiner
Exploringthe relationship between corporate social performance and employer attractiveness
Business & Society , volume 41 , p. 292 - 318 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M L Barnett
Why stakeholders ignore firm misconduct a cognitive view
Journal of Management , volume 40 , issue 3 , p. 676 - 702 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
740
RANK
588,270
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies