Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Disclosure: Evidence from Sri Lankan Listed Banks

Rajakulanajagam, Niruja. 2020. “Corporate Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Disclosure: Evidence from Sri Lankan Listed Banks.” P. 88 in Proceedings of Gari winter multidisciplinary Symposium 2020. Colombo, Sri Lanka: Global Academic Research Institute.

13 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021

Niruja Rajakulanajagam

University of Jaffna - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 21, 2020

Abstract

The main purpose of this paper is to examine the relationship between corporate governance and corporate social responsibility of Sri Lankan listed banks during the period from 2016 to 2019. Corporate governance was measured through its characteristics namely, board size, board independence, board meeting, board gender diversity, cross directorship, audit committee size and audit committee meetings. The content analysis was employed to measure the CSR disclosure using GRI framework 2016. All the data were collected from the annual report published in the website of Colombo stock exchange, Sri Lanka. All the listed banks (11) were selected to this study except one due to the recent listing. Hierarchical regression analysis was employed to investigate the association between the corporate social responsibility disclosure and other independent variables. The result indicates the moderate level of CSR disclosure among the sample listed banks in Sri Lanka. Result of the regression analysis indicate that only three governance variables positively associated with CSR disclosure. Those are, board size, audit committee size and audit committee meeting. The study also proves the positive association among firm size, firm profitability and CSR disclosure. The findings of the study are limited to the context of the study, Sri Lankan listed banks, for the period 2016 to 2019. Therefore, generalizability of the result to the other context is questionable. The findings of the study pressure the need of larger size board and audit committee to pool the expertise by which the CSR disclosure could be enhanced. The result also provide the implications to policy makers to develop the mandatory reporting requirement at least to a certain extent. The study reveals the relationship between CSR disclosure and corporate governance based on the CSR disclosure measured through content analysis with the contents of GRI framework 2016.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure, Corporate Governance, Listed Banks in Sri Lanka

Suggested Citation:

Rajakulanajagam, Niruja, Corporate Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Disclosure: Evidence from Sri Lankan Listed Banks (December 21, 2020). Rajakulanajagam, Niruja. 2020. “Corporate Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Disclosure: Evidence from Sri Lankan Listed Banks.” P. 88 in Proceedings of Gari winter multidisciplinary Symposium 2020. Colombo, Sri Lanka: Global Academic Research Institute. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3819933 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3819933
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Al Farooque , O Ahulu , H
Determinants of social and economic reportings: Evidence from Australia, the UK and South african multinational enterprises
International Journal of Accounting and Information Management , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 177 - 200 Posted: 2017
Crossref
M M Alfraih , A M Almutawa
Voluntary disclosure and corporate governance: empirical evidence from Kuwait
International Journal of Law and Management , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 217 - 236 Posted: 2017
Crossref
A Amran , S P Lee , S S Devi
The influence of governance structure and strategic corporate social responsibility toward sustainability reporting quality
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 217 - 235 Posted: 2014
Crossref
K Arifur , M H Dewan
PDF) Disclosure on Corporate Governance Issues in Bangladesh: A Survey of the Annual Reports Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,037
RANK
223,562
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies