Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Accounting Conservatism Improve the Corporate Information Environment?

Hu, J., Li, A. Y., & Zhang, F. F., Does accounting conservatism improve the corporate information environment? Journal of international accounting, Auditing and Taxation, 23(1): 32-43, 2014.

29 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2021

Jinshuai Hu

Xiamen University - Institute for Financial and Accounting Studies

Annie Li

University of Massachusetts Lowell

Feida Zhang

China Europe International Business School (CEIBS); University of Queensland - Accounting and Accountability

Date Written: February 4, 13

Abstract

This study investigates whether and how accounting conservatism improves the corporate information environment. We argue that conservatism facilitates the flow of firm-specific information from corporate insiders to outsiders and leads to a high-quality information environment. Using the Basu (1997) model to capture the extent of accounting conservatism and firm-specific return variation to proxy for the quality of information environment, we find that conservatism is positively associated with the improvement of the corporate information environment in our sample of 43 countries. We also find that the information role of conservatism is more pronounced in countries with weaker protection of private property rights, suggesting that conservatism substitutes for legal institutions in ensuring the quality of information environment.

Keywords: Accounting conservatism; corporate information environment; legal institutions; cross-country study

JEL Classification: G32; M41

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Jinshuai and Li, Annie and Zhang, Feida, Does Accounting Conservatism Improve the Corporate Information Environment? (February 4, 13). Hu, J., Li, A. Y., & Zhang, F. F., Does accounting conservatism improve the corporate information environment? Journal of international accounting, Auditing and Taxation, 23(1): 32-43, 2014., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3819203
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
C Armstrong , W R Guay , J Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball
Infrastructure Requirements for an Economically Efficient System of Public Financial Reporting and Disclosure
Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services , p. 127 - 182 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , &amp; A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Stella So , Kar Shum Wong , Feida Zhang , Xu Zhang
Value Relevance of Proportionate Consolidation Versus the Equity Method: Evidence from Hong Kong
So, S., Wong, K. S., Zhang, F. F., & Zhang, X. 2018. Value relevance of proportionate consolidation versus the equity method: Evidence from Hong Kong. China journal of accounting research, 11(4): 255-278. · 42 Pages · Posted: 16 Apr 2021 · Downloads: 155
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
535
RANK
622,944
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies