Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Compensation Matter? Evidence from CD&A Disclosures

36 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2021

Xiumin Martin

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin School of Business

Jie (Jane) Xu

Washington University in Saint Louis, John M. Olin Business School, Students

Guofu Zhou

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Date Written: April 4, 2021

Abstract

We study whether the similarity of firm disclosures on the Compensation Discussion and Analysis (CD&A) has predictability for future stock returns. We find that changes to the language and construction of the CD&As predict firms' future stock returns. A portfolio that longs the CD&A "non-changers" and shorts the "changers" earns a significant Fama-French 5-factor alpha of 5.86% (annualized), for the period of 2008-2020. We further find that companies with low CD&A similarities invest less in R&D, are more likely to be targeted by short-sellers, and have greater forced CEO turnovers. Our results provide new and strong evidence on the role of executive compensation in the cross-section of stock returns.

Keywords: Compensation Disclosure, CD&A Similarity, Predictable Returns, Textual Analysis

JEL Classification: D22, J31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Martin, Xiumin and Xu, Jie (Jane) and Zhou, Guofu, Does Compensation Matter? Evidence from CD&A Disclosures (April 4, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3819394 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3819394
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Lucian Arye Bebchuk , Jesse M Fried
Executive compensation as an agency problem
Journal of economic perspectives , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 71 - 92 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Benjamin , Jared R Blau , S Mckay Delisle , Price
Do sophisticated investors interpret earnings conference call tone differently than investors at large? evidence from short sales
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 31 , p. 203 - 219 Posted: 2015
A James , Brickley
Interpreting common stock returns around proxy statement disclosures and annual shareholder meetings
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , p. 343 - 349 Posted: 1986
Francois Brochet , Kalin Kolev , Alina Lerman
Information transfer and conference calls
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 907 - 957 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
474
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,930
RANK
138,343
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies