Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Report on Corporate Governance of Italian Listed Companies - 2020 (Rapporto 2020 Sulla Corporate Governance Delle Società Quotate Italiane)

CONSOB Statistics and analyses 2020

82 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2021

Nadia Linciano

Commissione Nazionale per le Societa e la Borsa (CONSOB)

Angela Ciavarella

CONSOB

Giovanna Di Stefano

CONSOB (Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa)

Rossella Signoretti

CONSOB

Lucia Pierantoni

CONSOB (Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa)

Eugenia Della Libera

CONSOB (Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa)

Elena Frasca

CONSOB (Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa)

Date Written: April 2021

Abstract

English Abstract: The Report (at its ninth edition) is organized in four sections. The first section describes the main characteristics of the ownership and control structure of Italian listed companies. In the second part are reported data on the internal governance of listed firms, with particular reference to the composition and the functioning of the board of directors and its committees. Then the Report focuses on Annual General Meetings, with regard to shareholders attendance and the votes casted on the remuneration policy (so called “say on pay”). Finally, the last section describes Related Party Transactions entered into by Italian listed companies during the year.

Italian Abstract: Il Report, giunto alla sua nona edizione, è articolato in quattro sezioni. Nella prima sono descritte le principali caratteristiche degli assetti proprietari e di controllo delle società italiane con azioni quotate. Nella seconda sono riportate evidenze relative alla governance interna delle società, ovvero alla composizione e al funzionamento del board e dei suoi comitati. Sono poi analizzate le assemblee annuali tenute dalle società, con particolare riferimento alla partecipazione degli azionisti e ai voti espressi in materia di say on pay. Infine, nell'ultima sezione del Report si descrivono le operazioni con parti correlate realizzate nel corso dell’anno dalle società quotate italiane.

Keywords: corporate governance, ownership structure, control structure, board of directors, board of statutory auditors, gender diversity, annual general meetings, related party transactions, say on pay, sustainability, remuneration policy, remuneration report

JEL Classification: G32, G34, K20

Suggested Citation:

Linciano, Nadia and Ciavarella, Angela and Di Stefano, Giovanna and Signoretti, Rossella and Pierantoni, Lucia and Della Libera, Eugenia and Frasca, Elena, Report on Corporate Governance of Italian Listed Companies - 2020 (Rapporto 2020 Sulla Corporate Governance Delle Società Quotate Italiane) (April 2021). CONSOB Statistics and analyses 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3821724 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3821724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Material Related Party Transactions (hereinafter RPTs) reported since 2011 by Italian listed companies -according to the relevant rules of CONSOB Regulation -amount to 629, on average about 63 per year. Such transactions have been more frequently entered into by small-sized companies and in the financial sector
Atanasov
RPTs have been categorized based on the nature of the resource transferred to/from the company's related party into three major types -asset, cash flow and equity tunnelling. Overall, most material RPTs entail the transfer of a portion of companies' cash flow, in the form of financing contracts or other contracts (52% of the total)
According to the tunnelling taxonomy developed by Posted: 2008
listed companies also entered into material, arm's length RPTs in the ordinary course of business, that benefit of a waiver from the disclosure obligations set forth by CONSOB Regulation. Pursuant to such waiver, overall 235 material RPTs in the ordinary course of business have been reported to CONSOB, especially by large companies (Ftse Mib firms reported the majority of RPTs) across every industry Posted: 2011
Other material RPTs in the ordinary course of business, overall accounting for 32.8% of total transactions, relate to funding activities of/by non-financial firms, that benefit of the waiver as they are closely related to the firm's operating activities
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
647
RANK
713,531
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies