Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association between Auditor Provided Tax Planning and Tax Compliance Services and Tax Avoidance and Tax Risk

Chyz, J., R. Gal-Or, V. Naiker and D. Sharma, 2021, The Association between Auditor Provided Tax Planning and Tax Compliance Services and Tax Avoidance and Tax Risk, The Journal of the American Taxation Association, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2021

James Chyz

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Ronen Gal-Or

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Vic Naiker

University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics

Divesh Sharma

Kennesaw State University, School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 7, 2021

Abstract

This study examines associations between auditor-provided tax compliance and tax planning services and tax avoidance and tax risk. Collectively, our results suggest that companies paying their auditors for tax planning advice are more effective tax planners (in terms of higher tax avoidance, and lower tax risk) than firms that do not engage their auditor for tax work. Our tax avoidance results are more pronounced for clients of auditors with more tax expertise and longer tenure as well as for firms with higher tax and operational complexity. We also find that our tax avoidance results hold only when firms also engage their auditors for tax compliance work, which is consistent with auditors seeking to minimize reputation threats. Our study’s unique hand-collected panel dataset provides a more precise and nuanced perspective on the role auditors play in tax outcomes.

Keywords: tax non-audit services, effective tax rates, tax volatility

JEL Classification: M41, M42, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Chyz, James and Gal-Or, Ronen and Naiker, Vic and Sharma, Divesh Shankar, The Association between Auditor Provided Tax Planning and Tax Compliance Services and Tax Avoidance and Tax Risk (April 7, 2021). Chyz, J., R. Gal-Or, V. Naiker and D. Sharma, 2021, The Association between Auditor Provided Tax Planning and Tax Compliance Services and Tax Avoidance and Tax Risk, The Journal of the American Taxation Association, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3821858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Code of Professional Conduct Rule No. 101-3, Performance of Nonattest Services Posted: 2011
B Badertscher , S Katz , S Rego
The separation of ownership and control and corporate tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 203 , p. 228 - 250 Posted: 2013
Crossref
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
Crossref
M Barth , W Beaver , W Landsman
Relative valuation roles of equity book value and net income as a function of financial health
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
511
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,850
RANK
126,559
9 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies