Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Members' Education Diversity and Sustainability Reporting

GOLD, N.O., AIFUWA, H.O., USMAN, M.K., SUBAIR, M.L., OSAZEVBARU, A., & OLOYEDE, B.M. (2021). “Board Members’ Education Diversity and Sustainability Reporting.” Annals of Spiru Haret University. Economic Series, 21(1), 109-129, doi: https://doi.org/10.26458/2115

22 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2021

Nusirat Gold

Kwara State University

Hope Osayantin Aifuwa

Department of Accounting, Faculty of Management Sciences, University of Benin, Benin City

Muhammed Kamaldeen Usman

Kwara State University

Muhammed Lawal Subair

Kwara State University

Albert Osazevbaru

University of Benin

Betsy Moroyin Oloyede

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: April 8, 2021

Abstract

The objective of this study is to investigate the influence of an educationally diverse board on sustainability reporting of listed consumer goods in Nigeria. for the period 2014-2019. We developed a sustainability disclosure index using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines to score the information content of annual reports relating to sustainability performance. Board members’ education level and background were used to proxy education diversity in the boardroom. We employed descriptive and inferential statistics to summarize the data and to draw an inference on the population studied. Results from the panel least squares regression revealed that board educational background diversity positively and significantly affects the sustainability reporting of consumer goods firms in Nigeria. However, we found no evidence on the nexus between diversity in the level of education of board members and sustainability reporting. The study concluded that board education diversity influences sustainability reporting in Nigeria. Consumer goods firms should frequently conduct workshops and symposiums on environmental and social reporting issues for their board members and employ directors from a diverse educational background into the board.

Keywords: education level diversity; education background diversity; sustainability reporting; global reporting initiative, consumer goods firms

JEL Classification: M10, M14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gold, Nusirat and Aifuwa, Hope Osayantin and Usman, Muhammed Kamaldeen and Subair, Muhammed Lawal and Osazevbaru, Albert and Oloyede, Betsy Moroyin, Board Members' Education Diversity and Sustainability Reporting (April 8, 2021). GOLD, N.O., AIFUWA, H.O., USMAN, M.K., SUBAIR, M.L., OSAZEVBARU, A., & OLOYEDE, B.M. (2021). “Board Members’ Education Diversity and Sustainability Reporting.” Annals of Spiru Haret University. Economic Series, 21(1), 109-129, doi: https://doi.org/10.26458/2115, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3822309
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
S I Adeniyi , A O Fadipe
Effect of Board Diversity on Sustainability Reporting in Nigeria: A Study of Beverage Manufacturing Firms
Indonesian Journal of Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 50 Posted: 2018
H O Aifuwa , K Embele
Board Characteristics and Financial Reporting Quality
Journal of Accounting and Financial Management , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 30 - 49 Posted: 2019
H O Aifuwa
Sustainability Reporting and Firm Performance in Developing Climes: A Review of Literature
Copernican Journal of Finance & Accounting , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 9 - 29 Posted: 2020
Crossref
H O Aifuwa , S Musa , N O Gold , K M Usman
Board Cognitive Diversity and Firm Performance Nexus: Evidence from Nigeria
International Journal of Management, Innovation & Entrepreneurial Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 88 - 99 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
290
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,050
RANK
240,099
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies