Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Beneficial Effect of Shareholder Participation in General Meetings: Evidence in the Context of Audit Quality

Bazrafshan, A., Banaiy, A., Bazrafshan, V. (2021). The beneficial effect of shareholder participation in general meetings: Evidence in the context of audit quality. Revista Brasileira de Gestão de Negócios, 23(1), p.81-103. https://doi.org/10.7819/rbgn.v23i1.4096

23 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2021 Last revised: 30 Apr 2021

Ameneh Bazrafshan

Imam Reza International University

Akram Banaiy

Imam Reza International University

Vajiheh Bazrafshan

Imam Reza International University

Date Written: April 8, 2021

Abstract

Purpose – This paper aims to investigate how shareholder participation in general meetings (SPGM) affects audit quality.

Design/methodology/approach – We measure SPGM as the percentage of the ownership represented by the shareholders who attend the general meeting. We measure audit quality by auditor industry specialization, audit firm size, and auditor fees. In order to investigate the relationship between SPGM and audit quality, we use a sample of 576 firm-years from Iran’s capital market between 2012 and 2018 and employ multivariate regression analysis.

Findings – The findings show that, in general, there is an insignificant relationship between SPGM and audit quality. However, we reveal that there is a positive and significant association between the presence of institutional shareholders in general meetings and audit quality. Furthermore, for the companies with a high presence of institutional shareholders in their general meetings, there is a significant and positive relationship between the participation of other shareholders in the general meetings and audit quality. Our findings are robust in regards to a variety of additional tests.

Originality/value – Collectively, the findings reveal that the impact of SPGM on audit quality is conditional to the presence of institutional shareholders in general meetings. The findings provide further insights among the mixed evidence on the beneficial effects of SPGM.

Keywords: general meetings, audit quality, corporate governance, regulators, institutional shareholders

Suggested Citation:

Bazrafshan, Ameneh and Banaiy, Akram and Bazrafshan, Vajiheh, The Beneficial Effect of Shareholder Participation in General Meetings: Evidence in the Context of Audit Quality (April 8, 2021). Bazrafshan, A., Banaiy, A., Bazrafshan, V. (2021). The beneficial effect of shareholder participation in general meetings: Evidence in the context of audit quality. Revista Brasileira de Gestão de Negócios, 23(1), p.81-103. https://doi.org/10.7819/rbgn.v23i1.4096, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3822206
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
138 References
L J Abbott , S Parker
Auditor selection and audit committee characteristics
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Adeyemi , T Fagbemi
Audit quality, corporate governance and firm characteristics in Nigeria
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 5 , issue 5 , p. 169 - 179 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession (ACAP)
R Aggarwal , P A C Saffi , J Sturgess
The role of institutional investors in voting: Evidence from the securities lending market
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , issue 5 , p. 2309 - 2346 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
651
RANK
872,402
138 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies