Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revaluation of Fixed Assets before Ipo: a Study on Textile Industry in Bangladesh

Journal of Finance and Accounting, 5(5), 200–205, 2017

6 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2021

Md. Tahidur Rahman

Bangladesh Army International University of Science and Technology (BAIUST) - Department of Business Administration; Bangladesh Army International University of Science and Technology

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

The textile and clothing sector of Bangladesh contributes more than 81 percent of foreign exchange earnings of the country. Considering the number of companies listed on the Dhaka Stock Exchange (DSE), textile was the second largest sector having 44 companies after insurance. Around fifty percent companies of the sector became listed on the DSE through Initial Public Offerings (IPO) during the period of January 2010 to March 2016. The study, based on prospectus data, intended to explore the practice of pre-IPO revaluation of fixed assets by textile industry in Bangladesh. Related objective of this study was to find out the factor(s) that influence(s) the growth of revaluation amount. Among the years under study, the highest number of textile companies became listed on DSE during 2014 and 2015 that accounted for about 55 percent growth of the sector. In the midst of controversies and doubts about the application and fairness of asset revaluation practice, a large number of textile companies in Bangladesh have been found revaluing their fixed asset as an option outlined in IAS 16. Thanks to the revaluation of fixed asset, average Net Asset Value (NAV) of textile companies raised from BDT 16.95 per share to BDT 28.54 per share with an increase of 68.38 percent. The study has observed an average increase in the value of fixed assets by 42 percent with a minimum of 4 percent and a maximum of 130 percent. Intensity of fixed assets has been found to have significant negative influence on the growth of fixed assets. This implies that textile companies which have low percentage of fixed assets on total asset observed hefty growth of fixed asset after revaluation. It is expected that the outcomes of the study will be useful to regulators, investors, financial analysts, and academics. Reporting of fixed assets in current market prices would assist investors and others make unbiased predictions about firms’ future performance. However, the condition is that asset revaluation should be made with utmost fairness and transparency.

Keywords: Asset Revaluation, Textile Industry, IPO Companies in Bangladesh

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Md. Tahidur and Rahman, Md. Tahidur, Revaluation of Fixed Assets before Ipo: a Study on Textile Industry in Bangladesh (2017). Journal of Finance and Accounting, 5(5), 200–205, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3822829 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3822829
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Philip Brown , H Y Izan , Alfred L Loh
Fixed Asset Revaluation and Managerial Incentives
ABACUS , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 36 - 57 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Zeljana Barac , Slavko Aljinovic , Sodan
Motives for Asset Revaluatioin Policy Choice in Croatia
Croatian Operational Research Review (CRORR) , volume 2 , p. 60 - 70 Posted: 2011
Adam Zakaria , David John Edwards , Gary David Holt , Vijay Ramchandran
A Review of Property, Plant and Equipment Asset Revaluation Decision Making in Indonesia: Development of a Conceptual Model
Mindanao Journal of Science and Technology , volume 12 , p. 109 - 137 Posted: 2014
Dyna Seng , Jiahua Su
Asset Devaluations: The Motivation behind Management Decisions Evidence from New Zealand Firms
International Journal of Business Strategy , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 67 - 76 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
912
RANK
658,366
2 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies