Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Structure and Firm Profitability in Developing Countries

Ali, B. J., & Anwar, G. (2021). Capital Structure and Firm Profitability in Developing Countries. GOYA, 68(374), 163–174. Retrieved from https://goyajournal.org/index.php/goya/article/view/35

12 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2021

Bayad Jamal Ali

Komar University for Science and Technology

Govand Anwar

Knowledge University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 8, 2021

Abstract

This research intended to investigate the influence of capital structure on private hospitals’ performance using a sample of 162 patients. The researchers used a quantitative approach to evaluate the impact of capital structure(Corporate governance, Ownership structure, and Constructive thought patterns) to measure the influence on sustained competitive advantage in private hospitals in Kurdistan region of Iraq. The research sample was chosen using a random sampling method and carried out in various locations in Kurdistan region of Iraq. A total of 175 questionnaires were issued, but only 162 participants completed them correctly. The results showed that the most effective relationship was between corporate governance as element of capital structure with firm performance, on the other hand the less effective relationship was between ownership as element of capital structure with firm performance. In addition, our results also suggest that the finance managers should use debts as last alternative in their capital structure. To the end, our study can be extended by incorporating more controlled variables, larger sample and longer period data in the regression models to get better results. Other measures and methodology can also be employed.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Ownership Structure, and Constructive Thought Patterns, Capital Structure, Private Hospital, Performance

Suggested Citation:

Ali, Bayad Jamal and Anwar, Govand, Capital Structure and Firm Profitability in Developing Countries (April 8, 2021). Ali, B. J., & Anwar, G. (2021). Capital Structure and Firm Profitability in Developing Countries. GOYA, 68(374), 163–174. Retrieved from https://goyajournal.org/index.php/goya/article/view/35, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3822698
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
V Nguyen
Human capital, capital structure choice and firm profitability in developing countries: An empirical study in Vietnam
Accounting , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 127 - 136 Posted: 2020
Crossref
R Ahmed , R Bhuyan
Capital structure and firm performance in Australian service sector firms: A panel data analysis
Journal of Risk and Financial Management , volume 13 , issue 9 Posted: 2020
Crossref
H T Nguyen , A H Nguyen
The impact of capital structure on firm performance: Evidence from Vietnam
The Journal of Asian Finance , volume 7 , issue 4 , p. 97 - 105 Posted: 2020
Crossref
M Touil , C Mamoghli
Institutional environment and determinants of adjustment speed to the target capital structure in the MENA region
Borsa Istanbul Review , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 121 - 143 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
378
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,344
RANK
148,252
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies