Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Former Insiders' Trading

66 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2021

Erik Johannesson

City University of NY, Baruch College, Zicklin School of Business

Date Written: November 18, 2018

Abstract

Using detailed and unique data from Sweden, I show that former insiders trade profitably in the shares of companies with which they used to be affiliated. A trading strategy mimicking former insiders’ trading behavior yields abnormal returns of 7.6% per year. These returns are primarily driven by post-separation purchases rather than by sales. They do not reflect general stock-picking skills: former insiders earn significantly lower abnormal returns when trading in companies with which they have no affiliation. I show that former insiders’ informational advantage diminishes over time, but less so if they have ties to current insiders. The importance of such ties increases in the presence of value-relevant information. My results are consistent with former insiders benefiting from both a retained informational advantage and from inside information obtained post-separation when trading in inside stock.

Keywords: Former insiders, insider trading

Suggested Citation:

Johannesson, Erik, Former Insiders' Trading (November 18, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3823514 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3823514
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Earnings Quality, Insider Trading, and Cost of Capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Bainbridge , M
Research Handbook on Insider Trading Posted: 2014
Brad M. Barber , Reuven Lehavy , Maureen F. McNichols , Brett Trueman
Buys, Holds, and Sells: The Distribution of Investment Banks' Stock Ratings and the Implications for the Profitability of Analysts' Recommendations
Pages: 52 Posted: 17 May 2006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B M Barber , R Lehavy , B Trueman
Comparing the stock recommendation performance of investment banks and independent research firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 85 , issue 2 , p. 490 - 517 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
844
RANK
667,795
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies