Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the Audit Committee on the Timeliness of the Annual Financial Reports in Jordanian Companies Listed in the Amman Stock Exchange

Alqaraleh, M.H.S. and Nour, A-N.I. (2020) ‘The impact of the audit committee on the timeliness of the annual financial reports in Jordanian companies listed in the Amman Stock Exchange’, Int. J. Critical Accounting, Vol. 11, No. 4, pp.287–298.

Posted: 12 Apr 2021

Abdulnaser Nour

An-Najah National University

Date Written: April 10, 2020

Abstract

The study examined the impact of the audit committee on the timeliness of the annual financial reports in Jordanian companies listed in the Amman Stock Exchange. The study used correlational research design. The data which collected from the published annual financial reports of 172 companies listed in Jordan for the duration between 2014 and 2016. The result showed that there is a positive and significant relationship between audit committee (audit committee independence, audit committee meeting and audit committee size) and timeliness of financial reports. In addition, there is a positive role for the audit committee to oversee the preparation and publication of financial reports. The study hereby recommend that companies to disclose the annual financial reports in legal time as this has become necessary in view of their impact on investor decisions. And continue to study this type of research for other financial periods.

Keywords: audit committee; audit committee independence; ACI; audit committee meeting; ACM; audit committee size; ACS; timeliness of financial reports; TFRs

Suggested Citation:

Nour, Abdulnaser, The Impact of the Audit Committee on the Timeliness of the Annual Financial Reports in Jordanian Companies Listed in the Amman Stock Exchange (April 10, 2020). Alqaraleh, M.H.S. and Nour, A-N.I. (2020) ‘The impact of the audit committee on the timeliness of the annual financial reports in Jordanian companies listed in the Amman Stock Exchange’, Int. J. Critical Accounting, Vol. 11, No. 4, pp.287–298., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3823978
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
290
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies