Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Avoiding Peer Information and Its Effects on Charity Crowdfunding: a Field Experiment

Management Science, Forthcoming

64 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2021 Last revised: 30 Sep 2022

Tat Chan

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Li Liao

Tsinghua University - PBC School of Finance

Xiumin Martin

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin School of Business

Zhengwei Wang

Tsinghua University - PBC School of Finance

Date Written: April 10, 2021

Abstract

We study the behavior of an individual avoiding peer information from a natural field experiment of charity crowdfunding. The unique experimental design enables us to employ an instrumental variable strategy to identify how the behavior influences individual giving and promoting charity campaigns. We find that, even with free access, 89% of individuals chose not to seek peer information. These individuals were less likely whereas their peers were more likely to give and help promote in the past. The behavior would reduce the total distribution of campaigns by 8.5% and the total donation amount by 7.7%. A stylized model is used to illustrate how the pressure from peer comparison drives the individuals not to seek the information, and how this behavior could influence giving and promoting behaviors of a group of marginal individuals.

Keywords: information avoidance, charity giving, crowdfunding, peer comparison, behavioral economics, field experiment

JEL Classification: C93, D82, D83, H41

Suggested Citation:

Chan, Tat and Liao, Li and Martin, Xiumin and Wang, Zhengwei, Avoiding Peer Information and Its Effects on Charity Crowdfunding: a Field Experiment (April 10, 2021). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3823764 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3823764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Ajay Agrawal , Christian Catalini , Avi Goldfarb
Some Simple Economics of Crowdfunding
Innovation Policy and the Economy , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 97 Posted: 2014
Omar Al-Ubaydli , John A List , Frechette Guillaume , Andrew Schotter
On the Generalizability of Experimental Results in Economics
Handbook of Experimental Economic Methodology Posted: 2015
Omar Al-Ubaydli , John A List
Do Natural Field Experiments Afford Researchers More or Less Control than Laboratory Experiments?
American Economic Review , volume 105 , issue 5 , p. 462 - 466 Posted: 2015
James Andreoni , Kolm Foundations , Jean Serge-Christophe , Ythier Mercier
18.Philanthropy
Handbook of the Economics of Giving, Altruism and Reciprocity Posted: 2006
Load more
1 Citations
Francesco D'Acunto , Michael Weber , Jin Xie
Punish One, Teach A Hundred: The Sobering Effect of Peer Punishment on the Unpunished
Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 19-06, Fama-Miller Working Paper, University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2019-12 · 66 Pages · Posted: 8 Feb 2019 · Last revised: 26 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 778
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
393
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,690
RANK
172,005
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies