Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Committees and Director Departures

47 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2021

Murali Jagannathan

SUNY at Binghamton - School of Management

Srinivasan Krishnamurthy

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management

Joshua D. Spizman

Loyola Marymount University - Department of Finance

Date Written: February 27, 2021

Abstract

We examine whether directors utilize private information obtained through their committee memberships to depart from firms prior to the revelation of their poor performance. Such departures raise the concern that directors leave the firm when they are most needed. Utilizing private information to make decisions in their personal interest may also violate the directors’ fiduciary duties. We focus on departures of audit committee members since information regarding earnings quality should be available to them prior to public release. The departure of audit committee members who serve on multiple boards is coincident with a deterioration in earnings quality. Other directors do not appear to time their departure based on declines in earnings quality. Results from examining the reasons behind this finding are consistent with the director’s preference to lead a “quiet life” and a desire to lower their exposure to litigation risk rather than to protect their reputation in the director market.

Keywords: Director Departures, Board Committees, Audit Committee

JEL Classification: G34, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Jagannathan, Murali and Krishnamurthy, Srinivasan and Spizman, Joshua D., Board Committees and Director Departures (February 27, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3823393 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3823393
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
A Agrawal , J F Jaffe , J M Karpoff
Management turnover and governance changes following the revelation of fraud
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 42 , issue S1 , p. 309 - 342 Posted: 1999
Crossref
M S Beasley , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , T L Neal
The audit committee oversight process
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 122 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Bertrand , S Mullainathan
Enjoying the quiet life? Corporate governance and managerial preferences
Journal of Political Economy , volume 111 , issue 5 , p. 1043 - 1075 Posted: 2003
Crossref
F Brochet , S Srinivasan
Accountability of independent directors: Evidence from firms subject to securities litigation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 111 , issue 2 , p. 430 - 449 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
625
RANK
812,529
1 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies