Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Future of Non-Financial Businesses Reporting: Learning from the COVID-19 Pandemic

Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management 2021

22 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2021

Abeer Hassan

University of West of Scotland

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Suman Lodh

Kingston University London

Lee Roberts

University of Dundee; Brunel University London

Monomita Nandy

Brunel University London

Date Written: April 12, 2021

Abstract

In this paper we conceptually identify the gap in the literature about lack of business’s awareness in non -financial activities, especially biodiversity, which can be responsible for crisis like COVID-19 which can adversely affect the global economy. We recommend approaches to existing business about how to enhance the quality of reporting by considering non-human element in reporting and making it more comprehensive for the stakeholders. We adopt Actor Network Theory (ANT) and the Natural Inventory Model to support our argument that nature consists of both human and non-human. From our observation about the COVID-19 crisis and by consulting the existing relevant literature on CSR, COVID-19, non-financial reporting and integrated reports (IR), we propose the implication of non-financial reporting by companies based on a theoretical framework. We recommend that companies should implement/adopt Circular Economy concept for sustainable business model and report on biodiversity and extinction accounting in more structured and mandatory way via producing IR to create value on short, medium and long terms. This is the first paper to tackle the COVID-19 crisis and offer solution for future reporting. The findings will add value in the academia and society.

Keywords: Business Reporting; COVID-19 Crisis; Sustainable Development; Non-Financial Reporting; Circular Economy, Integrated Reporting; Biodiversity; Stakeholder Engagement

Suggested Citation:

Hassan, Abeer and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Lodh, Suman and Roberts, Lee and Nandy, Monomita, The Future of Non-Financial Businesses Reporting: Learning from the COVID-19 Pandemic (April 12, 2021). Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3824714 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3824714
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
M Adhikariparajuli , A Hassan , M Fletcher , A A Elamer
Integrated reporting in higher education: insights from Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales
Social Responsibility Journal Posted: 2020
Crossref
R Adler , M Mansi , R Pandey
Biodiversity and threatened species reporting by the top Fortune Global companies
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 787 - 825 Posted: 2018
Crossref
A Alnabsha , H A Abdou , C G Ntim , A A Elamer
Corporate boards, ownership structures and corporate disclosures : Evidence from a developing country
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 20 - 41 Posted: 2018
I Alshbili , A A Elamer
The influence of institutional context on corporate social responsibility disclosure: a case of a developing country
Journal of Sustainable Finance and Investment , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 269 - 293 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,393
RANK
451,432
5 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies