Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Controlling Shareholders’ Equity Pledges, CSR Information Disclosure, and the Accuracy of Analysts’ Earnings Forecasts

57 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2021

Richard Kent

University of Michigan Dearborn

Wenbin Long

Guangdong University of Foreign Studies

Yupeng Yang

Jinan University

Troy Yao

Department of Accounting, Finance and Economics, Griffith Business School, Griffith University

Date Written: April 9, 2021

Abstract

We identify and predict circumstances where equity pledging by controlling shareholders reduces the accuracy of analysts’ earnings forecasts in the Chinese market. First, we predict that controlling shareholders opportunistically manipulate firm disclosure to avoid or alleviate margin call costs of pledging, increasing non-diversifiable information risk and impairing the accuracy of analysts’ earnings forecasts. Consistent with predictions, analyst forecast errors are positively associated with the proportion of shares pledged and this association strengthens with the severity of margin call pressure. Results demonstrate that the consequences of share pledging are widespread, with increases in analyst forecast error continuing to occur even in low information asymmetry contexts such as large firms and stable earnings. Second, CSR disclosures and the quality of CSR reporting moderates the relation between analysts’ forecast errors and share pledging by controlling shareholders. The adverse effects of share pledging significantly decline when firms disclose CSR reports with improvements in analyst forecast accuracy in excess of 50 percent on average. Further, equity pledging by controlling shareholders represents a financing transaction and we find that capital stakeholder disclosures in the CSR report are generally most useful in improving analyst forecast accuracy.

Keywords: Equity pledge, analyst forecast accuracy, information risk, corporate social responsibility.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Kent, Richard and Long, Wenbin and Yang, Yupeng and Yao, Troy, Controlling Shareholders’ Equity Pledges, CSR Information Disclosure, and the Accuracy of Analysts’ Earnings Forecasts (April 9, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3824458 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3824458
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,018
RANK
392,891
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies