Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Important Sustainability Reporting for Investment Decision Making?

SIJDEB, 3(4), 2019, 283-300

18 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2021

Sumiyati Sumiyati

Bangka Belitung University - Departement of Accounting

Suhaidar .

Bangka Belitung University

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

This study was conducted to examine the importance of sustainability reporting for investment decision making by prospective investors using belief-action-outcome (BAO) theory. This study is a rational investor behavior study in deciding the use of their assets by explaining it using Rational Decision Making Model (RDMM) theory. This study used an online quasi-experimental approach. The respondents of this research were prospective individual investors who understand the use of financial statements to make investments. This research was conducted with two tests. First, test the construct of variables. Second, test the subject's behavior with experiments. As for the experiments carried out two steps namely first, the subjects were given a questionnaire without any sustainability reporting. Second, subjects were given a questionnaire with instructions to read sustainability reporting first. The expected outcome is that investors tend to choose to buy shares of companies that also attach sustainability reports compared to companies without sustainability reports. Investors also tend to be rational in making decisions. This result showed the importance of sustainability report in rational decision making.

Keywords: Sustainability Reporting, Belief-Action-Outcome (BAO), Rational Decision Making Model (RDMM), Investment Decision

Suggested Citation:

Sumiyati, Sumiyati and ., Suhaidar, How Does Important Sustainability Reporting for Investment Decision Making? (2019). SIJDEB, 3(4), 2019, 283-300, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3824102
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Y Aharoni , L Tihanyi , B L Connelly
Managerial decision-making in international business: A forty-five-year retrospective
Journal of World Business , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 135 - 142 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Bauer , P Smeets
Social identification and investment decisions
Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization , volume 117 , p. 121 - 134 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Crossref
C B Bhattacharya , X Luo
Corporate social responsibility, customer satisfaction, and market value
Journal of Marketing , volume 70 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2006-10
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
519
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,566
RANK
123,905
1 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies