Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Technology Adoption within Internal Auditing in Ghana: Empirical Analysis

Dataking Working Paper Series N° WP2021-04-04

10 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2021

Benjamin Awuah

University of Ghana - Department of Accounting

Joseph M Onumah

University of Ghana

King C.T. Duho

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 11, 2021

Abstract

This study investigates the determinants of adoption of Computer-Assisted Audit Tools and Techniques (CAATTs) among internal audit units in Ghana. Data for the study was drawn from a sample of 75 private and state-owned enterprises through questionnaires while the partial least squares structural equation modelling (PLS-SEM) was employed to analyse and test hypotheses. The findings indicate that albeit CAATT adoption within internal audit units is fairly high, the actual usage in the areas of risk assessment, fraud detection, substantive testing and analytical procedures are still low. Using the Technology-Organisation-Environment (TOE) framework results show that CAATT behavioural intention is driven by factors such as technological readiness, organisational readiness and environmental readiness but not personal innovativeness. Also, CAATT behavioural intention influences CAATT Adoption among the internal audit units. The findings provide valuable insights to management, heads of audit units, policymakers and regulators on ways to improve the adoption and use of CAATT.

Keywords: Internal audit, Big data, Information technology, CAATT adoption, TOE framework, Structural equation modelling

JEL Classification: H83, L86, M4, O14, O33

Suggested Citation:

Awuah, Benjamin and Onumah, Joseph M and Duho, King C.T., Information Technology Adoption within Internal Auditing in Ghana: Empirical Analysis (April 11, 2021). Dataking Working Paper Series N° WP2021-04-04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3824403 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3824403
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
H Abou-El-Sood , A Kotb , A Allam
Exploring Auditors' Perceptions of the Usage and Importance of Audit Information Technology
International Journal of Auditing , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 252 - 266 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Ahmi , S Kent
The Utilisation of Generalized Audit Software (GAS) by External Auditors
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 88 - 113 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Ahmi , S Z Saidin , A Abdullah , A C Ahmad , N A Ismail
State of Information Technology Adoption by Internal Audit Department in Malaysian Public Sector
International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues , volume 6 , issue S7 , p. 103 - 108 Posted: 2016
R L Braun , H E Davis
Computer-Assisted Audit Tools and Techniques: Analysis and Perspectives
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 18 , issue 9 , p. 725 - 731 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
375
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,473
RANK
181,327
2 Citations
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies