Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyst confirmation of management forecast credibility during a global uncertainty shock: some evidence from Europe

39 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021 Last revised: 3 Feb 2025

Juhana Stenvall

Aalto University, School of Business

Date Written: September 25, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines whether textual management forecast commonalities that arise in a global crisis setting relate to ex post forecast accuracy, and whether subsequent analyst revisions confirm the credibility relevance of these commonalities (i.e., that these commonalities are relevant to the forecasted outcome). This approach is motivated by two conclusions. First, extant studies focus on general commonalities such as external (vs. internal) attributions, instead of specific subsets of these regularities that have the capacity to affect many management forecasts at the same time. Second, studies seldom focus on global crisis periods, although they acknowledge that those periods serve as catalysts for creating measures to assess management forecast credibility. After arguing that sales forecasts are most directly affected by global crisis conditions, I predict and find evidence that management who attribute their sales forecasts to the global crisis in part or in full issue both good and bad news forecasts that are more accurate ex post. This is consistent with the theoretical view that management credibly discloses low realizations in a timely manner to ameliorate adverse selection, in combination with high realizations. Furthermore, the ‘crisis’ attribution gives rise to a dictionary-free alternative to negative linguistic tone which is moderately associated with ex post forecast accuracy. Analyst confirmation of the credibility relevance of these measures suggests that they are useful for future research. 

Keywords: management forecast; management forecast credibility; analyst confirmation; attribution conservatism; crisis; linguistic tone

JEL Classification: G14, D82, M41

Suggested Citation:

Stenvall, Juhana, Analyst confirmation of management forecast credibility during a global uncertainty shock: some evidence from Europe (September 25, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3825507 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3825507
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
S Baginski , E Conrad , J Hassell
The effects of management forecast precision on equity pricing and on the assessment of earnings uncertainty
The Accounting Review , volume 68 , issue 4 , p. 913 - 927 Posted: 1993
S Baginski , E Demers , C Wang , J Yu
Contemporaneous verification of language: evidence from management earnings forecasts
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 197 Posted: 2016
S Baginski , J Hassell
Determinants of management forecast precision
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 2 , p. 303 - 312 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,041
RANK
580,030
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies