Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Zakat Signal the Firm Value? An Additional Inference of Mining and Manufacturing Zakatnomics

International Journal of Zakat Vol. 5(1) 2020 page 55-66

12 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2021

Ahmad Abbas

STAIN Majene

Date Written: June 1, 2020

Abstract

Mining and manufacturing industries are two contributive sectors having high economic value. Optimalization of their zakat potential should be estimated not only addressed to provide the gain for public welfare, but firms should also obtain the economic value on their performance. This research aims to provide an empirical inference on mining and manufacturing zakatnomics. The effect of corporate zakat potential on the firm value is tested in this research. The sample comprises 47 mining companies and 180 manufacturing companies listed in Indonesia Stock Exchange by utilizing financial statements of 2018 period. The result of this research finds that zakat potential was found positive on the firm value. This research also finds that zakat has a positive impact on profitability. Therefore, the finding in this research draws an inference that zakat empirically signals firm value and profitability.

Keywords: Zakat, Mining, Manufacture, Firm Value, Profitability

JEL Classification: G10, L60, L70, Z12

Suggested Citation:

Abbas, Ahmad, Does Zakat Signal the Firm Value? An Additional Inference of Mining and Manufacturing Zakatnomics (June 1, 2020). International Journal of Zakat Vol. 5(1) 2020 page 55-66, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3825335
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
A Abbas
Earnings Management in Banking Industry and its Impact on the Firm Value
AKRUAL: Jurnal Akuntansi , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 84 Posted: 2018
Crossref
H Ahmed
Waqf-Based Microfinance: Realizing the Social Role of Islamic Finance. Paper presented in the International Seminar on Integrating Awqaf in the Islamic Financial Sector Posted: 2007
M Afandi , Anif
Profitability Variables and Bank Size Effects on Corporate Zakat: Evidence from Indonesia Islamic Banks
International Journal of Zakat , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 55 - 66 Posted: 2019
Crossref
U S Al-Azizah , Rito , M Choirin
Correlation between Corporate Zakat, Capital Structures and Firm's Performance: Case Study of Jakarta Islamic Index
Indonesia. International Journal of Zakat , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 83 - 94 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
712
RANK
609,870
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies