Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Institutional Investors with Disciplinary History and CSR Behavior of Investee Firms

Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2021 Last revised: 17 Dec 2024

Samuel B. Bonsall

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting

Babak Mammadov

Clemson University - School of Accountancy & Legal Studies

Blerina Bela Zykaj

Clemson University - College of Business

Date Written: December 03, 2024

Abstract

This study explores how the prior unethical behavior of institutional investors impacts the corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities of the companies in which they invest. To identify such behavior, we focus on violations of laws and regulations by Registered Investment Advisers as reported to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our findings reveal that these investors discourage firms’ engagement in CSR activities within their investee firms, which we attribute to institutions’ disregard for social norms. Our inferences remain unchanged with alternative identification strategies and more stringent definitions of unethical behavior, suggesting that endogeneity bias and construct validity issues do not explain our baseline results. Additionally, we find that statements by these investors in support of CSR initiatives appear hypocritical, as they fail to mitigate the negative consequences of their ownership on CSR activities. Overall, our study suggests that institutional investors’ prior unethical behavior influences their governance activities, generating negative social externalities.

Keywords: Institutional investors, institutional investors with disciplinary history, financial misconduct, corporate social responsibility, CSR

Suggested Citation:

Bonsall, Samuel B. and Mammadov, Babak and Zykaj, Blerina Bela,

Institutional Investors with Disciplinary History and CSR Behavior of Investee Firms

(December 03, 2024). Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3825090 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3825090
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
O A Arah
Analyzing selection bias for credible causal inference: when in doubt, DAG it out
Epidemiology , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 517 - 520 Posted: 2019
G O Aragon , J S Martin , Z Shi
Who benefits in a crisis? Evidence from hedge fund stock and option holdings
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 131 , issue 2 , p. 345 - 361 Posted: 2019
B C Ayers , S Ramalingegowda , P E Yeung
Hometown advantage: The effects of monitoring institution location on financial reporting discretion
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 61 Posted: 2011
J Bae , N Khimich , S Kim , E Zur , M L Simpson , S S
Can Green Investments Increase Your Green? Evidence from Social Hedge Fund Activists
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 187 , p. 781 - 801 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,353
RANK
278,438
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies