Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CDS Trading Initiation, Information Asymmetry, and Dividend Payout

Posted: 13 Apr 2021

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Chao Kevin Li

The University of Adelaide

Jianxin (Donny) Zhao

Emory University

Date Written: April 13, 2021

Abstract

This study uses the information asymmetry framework of DeAngelo, DeAngelo, and Skinner (2008) to examine the effect of initiation of credit default swaps (CDS) trading on firm dividend payout policy. This leads us to consider three channels through which CDS initiation can affect dividends. We find evidence that CDS initiation is associated with increasing dividends, which is consistent with two channels: firms distributing excess free cash flow to mitigate exacerbated manager-equityholder agency conflicts resulting from reduced monitoring by banks following CDS initiation, and firms having a higher incentive to pay out free cash flow because external financing costs are lower as a result of information provided by CDS trading to the equity market. Additional findings corroborate the first channel by showing that the dividend increases are concentrated among borrowing firms whose lead arranger banks have a relatively less strong reputation in the loan syndication market, and firms whose loans are subject to less intense monitoring features, i.e., less restrictive loan covenants, following CDS initiation. Additional analyses suggest that dividend increases following CDS initiation are not attributable to a wealth transfer from debtholders to equityholders, and that inferences are robust to controlling for the potential effects of CDS initiation on capital structure.

Keywords: CDS trading, dividend payout, agency costs

JEL Classification: G30, G35

Suggested Citation:

Landsman, Wayne R. and Li, Chao and Zhao, Jianxin (Donny), CDS Trading Initiation, Information Asymmetry, and Dividend Payout (April 13, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3825302 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3825302
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
791
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies