Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Evidence on Post-IPO Performance in China’s A-share Market

3rd International Conference on Business, Economics, Management Science, 11-20

12 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021

Jianlin Chen

University of Southampton, Department of Economics; Carnegie Mellon University

Date Written: December 29, 2020

Abstract

We find that companies listed on China’s A-share market have a strong stock price performance within a month after IPO, and underperform a month later. Such a conclusion on the post-IPO performance is quite different from the prior research. We believe the phenomenon is mainly generated by policies of the capital market in China. We study the mechanism of the strong performance in the first month and the underperformance after that and find that the value return, investor sentiment, and the artificial hyping of stock prices generate the strong performance in the first month after IPO, and the bubble bursting and “window dressing” generate long-run underperformance later.

Keywords: Post-IPO Performance, Investor Sentiment, Window Dressing Problem

JEL Classification: C31, G02, G14

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Jianlin, New Evidence on Post-IPO Performance in China’s A-share Market (December 29, 2020). 3rd International Conference on Business, Economics, Management Science, 11-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3826029
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
770
RANK
448,944
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies