Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Working Capital Management on Financial Performance of Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria

89 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2021

Babatunde Kazeem Abayomi

Independent

Date Written: December 14, 2020

Abstract

Working capital is one major factor upon which the stability and survival of a business entity depend. Failure of a bank automatically connotes its working capital failure which could be highly contagious leading to a bank run on the distressed. This is one of the reasons the financial performance of the banking sector deeply depends on the efficient management of the banks’ working capital.

This study specifically examines the effect of Working Capital Management (WCM) on financial performance of Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria for the period of 2010 to 2019. The study sampled Seven (7) out of the Thirteen (13) listed Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria as at 31st December, 2019. Three models were formulated to guide the study with Net Interest Margin (NIM), Return on Equity (ROE) and Operating Profit Margin (OPM) as proxies for financial performance (dependent variables) of each model respectively; the independent variables are Loan to Deposit ratio (LTD), and Cash Ratio (CR) while the control variable is Bank Size (BS). The data were extracted from the annual reports of the banks. The ratio analysis along with descriptive, correlation analysis and Regression analysis were used to estimate the various models.

The findings showed that LDR has positive insignificant effect on NIM while CR and BS have significant positive effect on NIM, as to the overall outcome, working capital management jointly have significant effect on NIM. Also, LDR and BS have positive insignificant effect on ROE while CR exerts negative insignificant effect on ROE, working capital management jointly have no significant effect on ROE. Finally, LDR and BS have negative insignificant effect on OPM while CR exerts positive insignificant effect on OPM, working capital management jointly have significant effect on OPM.

The result revealed that managing working capital through cash ratio and bank size can mildly improve the bank’s financial performance when the performance is proxy by Net Interest Margin. For this to be achievable, the management of banks should ensure that there is adequate liquidity to meet customers’ demand at any point in time.

Keywords: Bank Size, Cash Ratio, Deposit Money Bank, Financial Performance, Liquidity, Loan to Deposit, Net Interest Margin, Working Capital Management

Suggested Citation:

Abayomi, Babatunde Kazeem, The Effect of Working Capital Management on Financial Performance of Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria (December 14, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3826458 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3826458
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Y Adamu , B Hussaini
Working Capital Management and Financial Performance of Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 6 , issue 16 , p. 57 - 71 Posted: 2015
S K Adjei , B Yeboah
Working Capital Management and Profitability of Banks in Ghana
Finance and Management Science , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2011
T Afza , M S Nazir
Working Capital Approaches and firm's returns in Pakistan
Pakistan Journal of Commerce and Social Science , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 36 Posted: 2009
A U Ahmad , M K Hassan
Regulation and Performance of Islamic Banking in Bangladesh
Thunderbird International Business Review , volume 49 , issue 2 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
907
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,510
RANK
59,881
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies