Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Committee Overlap and the Use of Earnings in CEO Compensation Contracts

59 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021 Last revised: 30 Aug 2021

Mary Ellen Carter

Boston College - Department of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Luann J. Lynch

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Melissa Martin

University of Illinois at Chicago

Date Written: January 12, 2020

Abstract

Using proxy statement data describing the terms of compensation contracts, we examine how overlapping membership between compensation and audit committees influences the use of earnings metrics in compensation. While research predicts that such overlap could either increase or decrease the reliance on earnings, we find that firms with overlapping directors rely less on earnings-based performance measures in incentive contracts without altering the overall level of performance-contingent cash bonuses. In addition, we provide evidence that firms substitute earnings measures with measures less subject to earnings management. Our findings are robust to potential alternative explanations, extend to an implicit relation between earnings and compensation for a larger sample, and are not driven by the tendency towards an overlapping committee structure more broadly.

Keywords: executive compensation, audit committee, compensation committee, board committees, incentive pay, performance measures

JEL Classification: J33, M41, G3

Suggested Citation:

Carter, Mary Ellen and Lynch, Luann J. and Martin, Melissa, Board Committee Overlap and the Use of Earnings in CEO Compensation Contracts (January 12, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3827467 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3827467
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Do directors perform for pay?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 171 Posted: 2008
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
R B Adams , V Ragunathan , R Tumarkin
Death by committee? An analysis of corporate board (sub-) committees. An Analysis of Corporate Board (Sub-) Committees Posted: 2018-12-22
A Albuquerque , B Chen , Q Dong , E J
Ex Post Settling Up in Cash Compensation: New Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 2283 - 2318 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,110
RANK
286,433
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies