Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of Being Responsible in a Crisis: An Analysis of the European Market

39 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021

Dina Ghanma

University of Reading - ICMA Centre

Ioannis Oikonomou

University of Reading - ICMA Centre

Lisa Schopohl

ICMA Centre, Henley Business School, University of Reading

Simone Varotto

ICMA Centre - Henley Business School, University of Reading

Date Written: April 12, 2021

Abstract

In the Subprime Crisis of 2008/9, European firms with high Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) scores had stock returns 1.8 to 2.6 percentage points higher than those with lower scores. This is believed to be the effect of social capital – an asset which becomes incrementally valuable during crises of trust. However, during the subsequent Sovereign Debt Crisis in 2011, we find the opposite to hold true. European firms with high CSR scores had stock returns which were roughly 1.6 percentage points lower than the returns of low CSR firms. We observe that the drastic change in the market response to CSR scores may be the result of the scores becoming a proxy for ESG “controversies” which could lead to legal disputes and fines. We find that using a new measure of social responsibility based on firms’ efforts to avoid controversies surrounding sustainability and conduct issues eliminates the return penalty previously observed with raw CSR scores. We conclude that European market participants have not ceased to value social capital in their investment decision making following the Subprime Crisis. Rather, in considering ESG measures beyond raw CSR scores, they have become shrewder in assessing true firm commitment to investment in social capital and are managing their portfolios accordingly.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, ESG controversies, financial crises, stock returns

JEL Classification: G01, G11, G30

Suggested Citation:

Ghanma, Dina and Oikonomou, Ioannis and Schopohl, Lisa and Varotto, Simone, The Value of Being Responsible in a Crisis: An Analysis of the European Market (April 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3827895 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3827895
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
A M Adam , T Shavit
How can a ratings-based method for assessing corporate social responsibility (CSR) provide an incentive to firms excluded from socially responsible investment indices to invest in CSR?
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 82 , issue 4 , p. 899 - 905 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Aouadi , S Marsat
Do ESG controversies matter for firm value? Evidence from international data
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 151 , issue 4 , p. 1027 - 1047 Posted: 2018
Crossref
B R Auer , F Schuhmacher
Do socially (ir) responsible investments pay? New evidence from international ESG data
The Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance , volume 59 , p. 51 - 62 Posted: 2016
Crossref
K H Bae , S El Ghoul , Z J Gong , O Guedhami
Does CSR matter in times of crisis? Evidence from the COVID-19 pandemic
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 67 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
880
RANK
411,549
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies