Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Credit Rating Agencies Value Less Volatile Leverage?

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

57 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021 Last revised: 13 Jan 2025

Boochun Jung

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Tae Wook Kim

City University of Hong Kong (CityU); University of Texas at Dallas; The University of Hong Kong

Miaochan Li

University of Hawaii at Manoa - UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII - Shidler College of Business

Derrald Stice

The University of Hong Kong - School of Business; HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Date Written: April 15, 2021

Abstract

Prior studies investigating financial statement volatility focus primarily on the volatility of income statement items, earnings volatility in particular, while our knowledge of the effects of the volatility of balance sheet items remains limited. We focus on leverage, arguably the most important balance sheet item ratio, and we investigate how credit rating agencies assess firms with smoother leverage ratios. We document that after controlling for a variety of firm characteristics, including the level of leverage and free cash flow, credit ratings are negatively related to leverage volatility. These results suggest that one benefit for firms with lower leverage volatility is a more favorable credit rating. We also examine the characteristics of firms with a greater ability to smooth leverage ratios. We find a negative relation between financial reporting quality and leverage volatility, consistent with the idea that higher financial reporting quality provides firms with better access to both equity and debt financing, providing greater flexibility to smooth leverage than firms with lower financial reporting quality.

Keywords: Leverage Volatility, Leverage, Credit Ratings, Financial Reporting Quality

JEL Classification: G24, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jung, Boochun and Kim, Tae Wook and Li, Miaochan and Stice, Derrald, Do Credit Rating Agencies Value Less Volatile Leverage? (April 15, 2021). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3827565 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3827565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
V V Acharya , B M Lambrecht
A Theory of Income Smoothing When Insiders Know More Than Outsiders
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 9 , p. 2534 - 2574 Posted: 2015
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , issue 1-2 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
P Asquith , A Beatty , J Weber
Performance Pricing in Bank Debt Contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
977
RANK
495,993
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies