Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determining Firm Value in the Indonesian Banking Sub Sector

Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol.4 No.2 (2021)

12 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021

Henny Medyawati

Gunadarma University

Muhamad Yunanto

Gunadarma University

Date Written: April 16, 2021

Abstract

This study aims to find the most appropriate model for analysing the effect of financial performance, dividend policy, interest rates and the rupiah exchange rate on firm value. The research sample includes the banking sub-sector companies listed on the IDX in 2013-2019. The research method used is purposive sampling to analyse the panel data. The variables used in this study are the company value as measured by Price to Book Value (PBV), financial performance is measured by Return on Assets (ROA), dividend policy is measured by Dividend Pay-out Ratio (DPR), interest rate is measured by BI interest rate, and the rupiah exchange rate is measured by the middle rate. The results show that ROA and exchange rate affect firm value. The appropriate model used in this study is the random effect model.

Keywords: Dividend Policy, Panel Data, PBV, ROA

Suggested Citation:

Medyawati, Henny and Yunanto, Muhamad, Determining Firm Value in the Indonesian Banking Sub Sector (April 16, 2021). Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol.4 No.2 (2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3827579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
S L Achmad , L Amanah
Pengaruh keputusan investasi, keputusan pendanaan, kebijakan dividen dan kinerja keuangan terhadap nilai perusahaan
Jurnal Ilmu dan Riset Akuntansi , volume 3 , issue 9 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2014
B Al-Najjar , D Al-Najjar
The impact of external financing on firm value and a corporate governance index: SME evidence
Journal of Small Business and Enterprise Development , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 411 - 423 Posted: 2017
Crossref
I Arifin , G Hadi
Membuka cakrawala ekonomi Posted: 2012
D Astuti
Manajemen keuangan perusahaan (cetakan pertama) Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
721
RANK
375,436
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies