Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Quality and Private Firms’ Access to Trade Credit Capital

The International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2021

Anastasios Elemes

ESSEC Business School

Andrei Filip

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Date Written: April 16, 2021

Abstract

Prior research suggests that suppliers are able to fund opaque and credit-rationed customers because they rely heavily on insider communication channels to resolve information asymmetry. In this paper we examine the association between financial reporting quality and trade credit financing for a large sample of private firms from Europe’s five largest economies, i.e., France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom. We find strong evidence that high quality financial reporting is associated with more trade credit financing and that this relation is stronger when information asymmetry and uncertainty about future cash flows is high, as well as when credit is rationed. Our findings suggest that suppliers complement insider communication channels and financial reporting quality and provide a more nuanced understanding of the interplay among information asymmetry, credit rationing, and trade credit financing.

Keywords: private firms, financial reporting quality, trade credit, information asymmetry, credit rationing

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Elemes, Anastasios and Filip, Andrei, Financial Reporting Quality and Private Firms’ Access to Trade Credit Capital (April 16, 2021). The International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3827649 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3827649
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
361
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,335
RANK
190,939
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies