Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Corporate Environmental Cost and Benefits on the Profitability of Firms’:An Empirical Study

Business Insight: Journal of The Department of Commerce, Volume 8/ March, 2021

17 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2021

Sudipta Mondal

JCCC, University of Calcutta

Santanu Kumar Ghosh

The University of Burdwan

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

There are several scholarly studies on the finding of relationship between corporate environmental performance (CEP) and profitability of firm. In the recent scenario of strategic application of CEP, scholars have proposed to have an indirect relationship between CEP and profitability. Questions also raised by the researchers regarding subjective or qualitative measurement of CEP. In the developing countries, very few studies can be found regarding any empirical search to establish the proposition of such indirect relationship and quantitative measurement of CEP. In the present paper, initiative has been taken to these respect. Here, mediation model and two stage least square model are used on ten years data. A total of 366 companies are selected from India, China, South Korea and Japan. It has been found that financial contribution for CEP has indirect impact on the profitability of firm. The study results will encourage companies to do more CEP strategically. However, disparity in the non-financial report disclosure causes significant lack of data to get better output.

Keywords: Environmental Responsibility, Sustainability, Strategic CSR, Management

Suggested Citation:

Mondal, Sudipta and Ghosh, Santanu Kumar, Impact of Corporate Environmental Cost and Benefits on the Profitability of Firms’:An Empirical Study (2021). Business Insight: Journal of The Department of Commerce, Volume 8/ March, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3828676
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
to disclose economical environmental benefits for its (benefits) considerable impact on the stakeholders. However, the study could have been much conclusive with longer period of time and large number of relevant dataset
Crossref
S A Al-Tuwaijri , T E Christensen , K E Hughes , Ii
The Relations Among Environmental Disclosure, Environmental Performance, And Economic Performance: A Simultaneous Equations Approach
Organizations, And Society , volume 29 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
Crossref
E Benz , S &amp;truck
Modelling The Price Dynamics Of CO2 Emission Allowances
Energy Economics , volume 31 , p. 4 - 15 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S Berthelot , D Cormier , M Magnan
Environmental Disclosure Research: Review And Synthesis
Journal Of Accounting Literature , volume 22 , p. 1 - 44 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
370
RANK
697,608
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies