Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The War on Bribes: The FCPA and the Global Battle to End Corruption

56 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021 Last revised: 29 Apr 2021

Patrick Warczak, Jr.

University of Akron School of Law

Date Written: April 17, 2021

Abstract

In 1972, investigations following the Watergate break-in uncovered a scandal within the scandal: corporations were using slush funds and manipulating financial statements to disguise bribes to foreign officials for business purposes. The U.S. Congress, led by Senators William Proxmire and Frank Church, effectively declared an all-out war on bribes. Their primary weapon: The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, signed into law at the end of 1977 with the explicit purpose of ending corporate bribery of foreign officials. In the decades that followed, the international community joined the battle, with some 40 countries enacting laws similar to the FCPA by 2019. But while enforcement by the Department of Justice and the SEC climbed dramatically in more recent years, the agencies' extensive - and perhaps excessive - use of Deferred- and Non-Prosecution Agreements (DPAs and NPAs, respectively) has blunted the effectiveness of the law in rooting out corruption. This paper argues that efficacy of the FCPA is ultimately a function of enforcement, and that enforcement must address individual wrongdoers with meaningful penalties for the FCPA to have any prayer of achieving its goal.

Keywords: FCPA, corruption, Watergate, Department of Justice, SEC

Suggested Citation:

Warczak, Patrick, The War on Bribes: The FCPA and the Global Battle to End Corruption (April 17, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3828842 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3828842
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Siemens
The result was a string of investigations across multiple countries, including one by the SEC. Facing the possibility of federal prosecution, Siemens initiated its own internal investigation, exploring transactions in more than sixty-five countries and uncovering more than 4,000 payments representing $1.4 billion in bribes between 2002 and 2007. 203 The company pled guilty to violating the FCPA
The bank informed Siemens, but also notified regulators
Ironically, among the improper payments were $1.7 million in kickbacks under the U.N. Oil-forFood program
Still, some observers insist that corporations have changed their ways in the years since Congress enacted the FCPA, especially in the last fifteen. A partner in a compliance advisory consultancy, for example, recognized that Posted: 2008
After returning to the DOJ following four years in private practice, Deputy Assistant Attorney General Trevor McFadden described in 2017 how he had personally observed corporations "working hard to do the right thing
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
995
RANK
478,373
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies