Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of CEO Competence Heterogeneity and Investor Risk Appetite on Corporate Bond Yield- Take the Listed Companies of the Real Estate Industry as an Example

International Journal of Business and Administrative Studies, 6(4), 183-200 (2020) doi: https://dx.doi.org/10.20469/ijbas.6.10002-4

18 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2021

Han-Ting Wang

Dhurakij Pundit University - China-ASEAN International College

Sze-Ting Chen

Dhurakij Pundit University - China-ASEAN International College

Date Written: April 17, 2021

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to propose a new integrated model that combines the concepts of risk and CEO competence. Risk is the deviation of the result caused by the different effects. Putting risk into the real capital market due to information asymmetry and imperfect capital market, investors must bear the investment-oriented risk while pursuing excess remuneration. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO), the core decision maker, plays an important role in corporate bond yields, but the impact of CEO competence heterogeneity on corporate bond yield performance indicates rarely noticeable. A structural equation model and five-way interactions in moderated multiple regressions was used to test the hypotheses on a sample of 215 bond yields issued by 43 A-share listed companies in SSE and SZSE as a research sample in 2007-2017, and collected 473 sample data for 11 years in China. This results indicate that five indicators of the company’s return on assets ROA, CEO relative salary, CEO education, CEO qualification and CEO holdings to measure the heterogeneity of CEO competence along with the exploring of impact on corporate bond yields. It also considers the investor risk appetite factor and considers the macro factor GDP as the influencing factor to investigate the impact of investors as risk enthusiasts or risk aversion on corporate bond yields. The present study conceptualized the two influencing factors of CEO competence heterogeneity and investor risk preference, it is expected to explore the impact of corporate bond yield. The study concluded that the company’s return on assets ROA, CEO relative salary, CEO education, CEO holdings and investor risk premium will exert a significant impact on corporate bond yields. CEO qualifications and GDP make no significant impact on corporate bond yields. To the best of the knowledge, how A-share listed companies identify CEO competence heterogeneity to create organization performance, thereby promoting the development of risk and CEO competence heterogeneity of China has not been analysed in financial literature. Thus, the present study provides a significant contribution to the human capital literature, in which empirical research analyses the five-way interaction and demonstrates the empirical insights that may be used to study human capital. The findings reported in this study will encourage future researchers to employ heterogeneity human capital perspective.

Keywords: CEO capability heterogeneity, investor risk appetite, bond yield, real estate industry, GDP

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Han-Ting and Chen, Sze-Ting, The Impact of CEO Competence Heterogeneity and Investor Risk Appetite on Corporate Bond Yield- Take the Listed Companies of the Real Estate Industry as an Example (April 17, 2021). International Journal of Business and Administrative Studies, 6(4), 183-200 (2020) doi: https://dx.doi.org/10.20469/ijbas.6.10002-4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3828444
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
P Ailing , Y Mingtao
An empirical study on the relationship between the characteristics of executive teams and financial performance in cultural enterprises
Guangdong Social Sciences , volume 84 , issue 5 , p. 5 - 14 Posted: 2013
B Baik , D B Farber , S Lee
CEO ability and management earnings forecasts
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 5 , p. 1645 - 1668 Posted: 2011
Crossref
L A Bebchuk , K M Cremers , U C Peyer
The CEO pay slice
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 199 - 221 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Y Y Chang , S Dasgupta , G Hilary
CEO ability, pay, and firm performance
Management Science , volume 56 , issue 10 , p. 1633 - 1652 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
713
RANK
499,012
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies