Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of the Balance Sheet Approach on the Usefulness of Accounting Information in Assessing Bank Default Risk

57 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021 Last revised: 25 Apr 2021

Peter R. Demerjian

School of Accountancy, J. Mack Robinson College of Business, Georgia State University

Kodai Ito

University of Tokyo - Graduate School of Economics

Akinobu Shuto

University of Tokyo - Graduate School of Economics

Date Written: March 31, 2021

Abstract

This study investigates the effect of the balance sheet approach, where financial reporting focuses on asset and liability valuation, on the usefulness of the capital adequacy ratio in the evaluation of bank default risk by credit rating agencies. We examine Japanese banks, which play the central role in the Japanese economy, and whose capital adequacy ratios are affected by the fair value measurement under the balance sheet approach. We adopt Demerjian’s (2011) approach to develop a bank-level measure of balance sheet focus. Although we find a significant positive correlation between the slack of the regulatory capital adequacy ratio and issuer rating, we find that this positive correlation is significantly weakened as a bank’s dependence on the balance sheet approach increases. The results suggest that the regulatory capital adequacy ratio based on a bank’s accounting information provides useful information for the evaluation of default risk but that rating agencies discount capital information that relies heavily on the balance sheet approach when estimating a bank’s default risk.

Keywords: balance sheet approach, regulatory capital adequacy ratio, bank regulation, rating

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Demerjian, Peter R. and Ito, Kodai and Shuto, Akinobu, The Effect of the Balance Sheet Approach on the Usefulness of Accounting Information in Assessing Bank Default Risk (March 31, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3828678 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3828678
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
A S Ahmed , K Emre , J L Gerald
Effects of SFAS 133 on the risk relevance of accounting measures of banks' derivative exposures
Acc. Rev , volume 86 , p. 769 - 804 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Aoki
The Japanese main bank system: Its relevance for developing and transforming economies Posted: 1994
I Argimón , D Michel , E Ángel
Prudential filters, portfolio composition at fair value and capital ratios in European banks
J. Financ. Stab , volume 39 , p. 187 - 208 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Y Arikawa , H Miyajima , R Ogawa
The bank-firm relationship after the formation of megabanks, Waseda Corporate Governance Research
Working Paper Series , p. 2017 - 2023 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
314
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,738
RANK
220,473
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies