Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Total Quality Management on Corporate Sustainability

Studies in Indian Place Names (UGC CARE Journal), 2020

6 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2021

S. C. B Samuel Anbu Selvan

The American College, Madurai

Deepthi Nivasini Kumar

Achariya Arts and Science College; Thiagarajar College

Date Written: March 2, 2020

Abstract

Sustainability is that which meets present needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Excelling in production operations, plays a significant role when firms want to acquire a competitive edge. The present study aims to investigate the structural relationship between Total Quality Management (TQM) and Corporate Sustainability (CS) and examines how total quality management practices can facilitate firms to achieve their corporate sustainability objectives. Additionally, the study focuses on the benefits of implementing total quality management in organizations and how Total Quality Management (TQM) practices influence the sustainable development of companies. Technology and innovation has brought about massive competition in the corporate world. Therefore, this paper aims to throw light on, how total quality management impacts the sustainable development of business concerns.

Keywords: Total Quality Management (TQM), Sustainability, Triple Bottom Line (TBL)

Suggested Citation:

Selvan, S. C. B Samuel Anbu and KUMAR, DEEPTHI NIVASINI, The Impact of Total Quality Management on Corporate Sustainability (March 2, 2020). Studies in Indian Place Names (UGC CARE Journal), 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3829183
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Z Aaden
Total quality management: A Path to Sustainable Growth and Improvement
IvyPanda Posted: 2019-05-02
M Zairi , I M Liburd
TQM Sustainability -A Roadmap for Creating Competitive Advantage
Integrated Management, Proceedings of the 6 th International Conference on ISO 9000 and TQM , p. 17 - 19 Posted: 2001
Scotland April
Organised by: The Department of Commerce and Management of St. Joseph's College (Autonomous), Bengaluru in collaboration with the Department of Economics
Two day International Conference on "Business Dynamics and Sustainable Development , p. 452 - 461 Posted: 2020-03
Brotherton Hacker
Balancing Measures: Best Practices in Performance Management, Designing and installing , volume 13 , p. 113 - 118 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
792
RANK
369,949
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

IO: Productivity, Innovation & Technology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies