Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CFOs’ Risk Preferences in Earnings Management: The Joint Effect of Risk-decreasing and Risk-increasing Incentives

42 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2021

Feng Han

Capital University of Economics and Business

Teresa Lightner

Oklahoma State University

Bing Luo

San Francisco State University

Date Written: April 19, 2021

Abstract

This study examines whether the equity incentives of the CFO are associated with earnings management. Prior research investigates delta and vega for the average of the top five executives on the firm’s financial misreporting. The top 5 executives variable most likely captures the culture of the firm as a whole rather than any one executive. We examine the CFO who is ultimately responsible for the quality of financial reporting. We find a negative effect of CFOs’ risk-decreasing incentives (delta) and a positive effect of CFOs’ risk-increasing incentives (vega) on our accrual-based earnings management proxies. Thus, we find the CFO responds to equity incentives differently from the average of the top five executives and that CFOs undertake or abstain from earnings management when it benefits their own wealth rather than shareholders’ interests.

Keywords: Equity Incentives, Executive Compensation, Risk-taking, Earnings Management, Accrual Earnings Management

JEL Classification: J33, G34, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Han, Feng and Lightner, Teresa and Luo, Bing, CFOs’ Risk Preferences in Earnings Management: The Joint Effect of Risk-decreasing and Risk-increasing Incentives (April 19, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3829798 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3829798
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
651
RANK
453,964
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies