Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Meet, Beat, and Pollute

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

62 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2021 Last revised: 19 May 2022

Jacob K. Thomas

Yale School of Management

Wentao Yao

Xiamen University - School of Management

Frank Zhang

Yale School of Management

Wei Zhu

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: May 18, 2022

Abstract

We investigate two related questions about the trade-off between short-term pressures on managers to meet earnings targets and the long-term environmental benefits of reduced pollution. Do firms release more toxins by cutting back on pollution abatement costs to boost earnings in years they meet earnings benchmarks? If so, is that relation weaker for firms with higher environmental ratings? Using Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) data on toxic emissions, we find that U.S. firms pollute more when they meet or just beat consensus earnings per share (EPS) forecasts, suggesting that meeting expectations is a more important goal than reducing pollution. We find this relation is stronger, not weaker, for firms with higher environmental ratings: they increase pollution even more when meeting earnings benchmarks than firms with lower ratings. This suggests that highly rated firms build regulatory and reputational slack over time and use it when needed to soften the negative impact of increased pollution. We contribute to the real earnings management and environmental economics literatures by documenting a negative externality of financial reporting incentives on the environment and society. We also contribute to the corporate sustainability literature by showing that environmental, social, and governance (ESG) focus does not curb managerial short-termism.

Keywords: ESG; corporate sustainability; managerial short-termism; meeting earnings benchmarks; real earnings management; externality

JEL Classification: G10, M14, M41, Q50

Suggested Citation:

Thomas, Jacob and Yao, Wentao and Zhang, Frank and Zhu, Wei, Meet, Beat, and Pollute (May 18, 2022). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3830867 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3830867
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
P Akey , I Appel
The limits of limited liability: Evidence from industrial pollution
Journal of Finance , volume 76 , p. 5 - 55 Posted: 2021
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and how investors use ESG information: Evidence from a global survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
W R Baber , P M Fairfield , J A Haggard
The effect of concern about reported income on discretionary spending decisions: The case of research and development
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , p. 818 - 829 Posted: 1991
R D Banker , D Byzalov , J M Plehn-Dujowich
Demand uncertainty and cost behavior
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , p. 839 - 865 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
680
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,247
RANK
87,812
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies