Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deleveraging, Tax and Corporate Policies

46 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2021

Li Huang

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Faculty of Business

Oliver Zhen Li

National University of Singapore (NUS)

Hang Liu

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics

Chenkai Ni

Department of Accounting, School of Management, Fudan University; Fudan University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 22, 2021

Abstract

Exploiting a government-initiated deleveraging program, we investigate how marginal corporate tax rate affects corporate policy changes in response to a credit shock. We find that, after the initiation of China’s 2015 deleveraging program, high-tax-rate firms reduce leverage to a less extent compared with low-tax-rate firms. This effect is stronger in non-state-owned firms and firms with less non-debt tax shields. High-tax-rate firms reduce dividend and switch to equity financing to a less extent. Through retaining more debt, high-tax-rate firms cut less investments in fixed assets, R&D and human capital. With this unique deleveraging setting, we reveal important implications of the tax-leverage link for corporate policies.

Keywords: deleveraging, marginal corporate tax rate, capital structure, investment, state ownership

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Li and Li, Oliver Zhen and Liu, Hang and Ni, Chenkai, Deleveraging, Tax and Corporate Policies (April 22, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3831732 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3831732
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Heitor Almeida , Murillo Campello , Bruno Laranjeira , Scott Weisbenner
Corporate debt maturity and the real effects of the 2007 credit crisis
Critical Finance Review , volume 1 , p. 3 - 58 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Annette Alstadsaeter , Martin Jacob , Roni Michaely
Do dividend taxes affect corporate investment
Journal of Public Economics , volume 151 , p. 74 - 83 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Jennifer Blouin , John E Core , Wayne Guay
Have the tax benefits of debt been overestimated
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 98 , p. 195 - 213 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Mark T Bradshaw , Guanmin Liao , Mark S Ma
Agency costs and tax planning when the government is a major shareholder
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , p. 255 - 277 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,279
RANK
274,044
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies