Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When an Industry Peer is Accused of Financial Misconduct: Stigma Versus Competition Effects on Non-Accused Firms

Administrative Science Quarterly, 2021, 66(4), 1130-1172

Bocconi University Management Research Paper

71 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2021 Last revised: 8 Nov 2021

Ivana Naumovska

INSEAD

Dovev Lavie

Bocconi University - Department of Management and Technology

Date Written: April 21, 2021

Abstract

Research on misconduct suggests that accusations against industry peers generate negative consequences for non-accused firms (a “stigma effect”). Yet, building on research on competitive dynamics, we infer that such accusations can benefit non-accused firms that compete with these peers (a “competition effect”). To reconcile these opposing perspectives, we posit that the negative stigma effect will increase with greater product market overlap between the non-accused firm and its accused peer, up to a point, beyond which the positive competition effect will counterbalance it. We further conjecture that the competition effect will be relatively more pronounced when the market classification used by investors for assessing the market overlap is more fine-grained. Accordingly, we suggest that more sophisticated investors, who rely on more fine-grained market classifications, increase their shareholdings in non-accused firms to a greater extent than less sophisticated investors, as the market overlap between the non-accused firm and the accused peer increases. Using elaborate data on products and investments, we analyze investors’ shareholdings and stock market returns of non-accused firms in the U.S. software industry following accusations of financial misconduct by their industry peers, and find support for our predictions. Our study elucidates the interplay between stigma and competition following misconduct by industry peers.

Keywords: Misconduct, stigma, competition, market classification, market overlap, investor, stock market return

Suggested Citation:

Naumovska, Ivana and Lavie, Dovev, When an Industry Peer is Accused of Financial Misconduct: Stigma Versus Competition Effects on Non-Accused Firms (April 21, 2021). Administrative Science Quarterly, 2021, 66(4), 1130-1172, Bocconi University Management Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3831135
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
116 References
V Agarwal , K A Mullally , Y Tang , B Yang
Mandatory portfolio disclosure, stock liquidity, and mutual fund performance
Journal of Finance , volume 70 , p. 2733 - 2776 Posted: 2015
A Alawadhi , J M Karpoff , J L Kosi , G S Martin
The prevalence and costs of financial misrepresentation , p. 1 - 60 Posted: 2020
D L Arjaliès , R Durand
Product categories as judgment devices: The moral awakening of the investment industry
Organization Science , volume 30 , p. 885 - 911 Posted: 2019
M L Arthaud-Day , S T Certo , C M Dalton , D R Dalton
A changing of the guard: Executive and director turnover following corporate financial restatements
Academy of Management Journal , volume 49 , p. 1119 - 1136 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
394
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,961
RANK
172,005
116 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bocconi University Management & Technology Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies