Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Changing the Audit Committee Chair: An Analysis of Potential Effects on Audit Quality and Audit Fees

39 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2021 Last revised: 1 Oct 2021

Svenja Hillebrandt

University of Hamburg

Nicole V.S. Ratzinger-Sakel

University of Hamburg

Date Written: April 22, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the association between changes of the audit committee (AC) chair on audit quality and audit fees. We find that changes of the AC chair are negatively associated with audit quality. This finding indicates that firm-specific knowledge and task-related experience have an impact on audit quality. Furthermore, AC chair changes are positively associated with audit fees. Specifically, audit fees are approximately 7.14 percent higher following a change of the AC chair. However, our analyses show that our findings depend on the accounting experience of the former AC chair. Thus, if the former AC chair has no accounting experience, the negative effect of AC chair changes on audit quality turns insignificant, which indicates that former AC chair’s firm-specific knowledge and task-related experience only improve the effectiveness of the AC when the former AC chair has simultaneously accounting expertise. This result highlights the importance of accounting expertise for AC chair´s monitoring effectiveness. Similarly, if the former AC chair has accounting experience, the effect on audit fees turns insignificant. We, therefore, conclude that new AC chairs are aware of the supervisory shortcomings of former AC chairs without accounting expertise, and, thus, demand a greater degree of audit procedures from the external auditor resulting in higher audit fees. However, it appears that the extension of audit procedures cannot compensate for the monitoring shortcomings associated with the change of the AC chair and, thus, for the decrease of audit quality.

Keywords: audit committee chair, audit committee chair changes, audit committee, audit quality, audit fees, corporate governance, abnormal accruals

JEL Classification: M42, M48, M54, G3, G39

Suggested Citation:

Hillebrandt, Svenja and Ratzinger-Sakel, Nicole V.S., Changing the Audit Committee Chair: An Analysis of Potential Effects on Audit Quality and Audit Fees (April 22, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3832072 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3832072
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
L Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
D S Archambeault , T F Dezoort , D R Hermanson
Audit committee incentive compensation and accounting restatements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 965 - 992 Posted: 2008
M F Baumann , N V S Ratzinger-Sake
The time dependence of audit firm alumni effects: Evidence from audit committees
International Journal of Auditing , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 110 - 130 Posted: 2020
J Bédard , Y Gendron
Strengthening the financial reporting system: Can audit committees deliver?
International Journal of Auditing , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 174 - 210 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,218
RANK
274,044
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies