Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Mandatory ESG Disclosure Around the World

Journal of Accounting Research, forthcoming

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 21-44

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 754/2021

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

75 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2021 Last revised: 25 Oct 2024

Philipp Krueger

University of Geneva - Geneva Finance Research Institute (GFRI); Swiss Finance Institute; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); University of Geneva - Geneva School of Economics and Management

Zacharias Sautner

University of Zurich - Department of Finance; Swiss Finance Institute; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Dragon Yongjun Tang

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Rui Zhong

The University of Western Australia - UWA Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 8, 2024

Abstract

We compile a novel dataset on mandatory environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosure around the world to analyze the stock liquidity effects of such disclosure mandates. We document a positive effect of ESG disclosure mandates on firm-level stock liquidity. The effects are strongest if the disclosure requirements are implemented by government institutions, not on a comply-or-explain basis, and coupled with strong enforcement by informal institutions. Firms with weaker information environments benefit more from ESG disclosure mandates. Our results support the view that ESG disclosure regulation improves the information environment and has beneficial capital market effects.

Keywords: Sustainability reports, ESG reporting, Nonfinancial information, ESG incidents

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G18, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Krueger, Philipp and Sautner, Zacharias and Tang, Dragon Yongjun and Zhong, Rui, The Effects of Mandatory ESG Disclosure Around the World (April 8, 2024). Journal of Accounting Research, forthcoming, Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 21-44, European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 754/2021, HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3832745 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3832745
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
P Aghion , Y Algan , P Cahuc; , A Shleifer
Regulation and Distrust
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 125 , p. 1015 - 1049 Posted: 2010
J G Altonji , E Todd; , C Taber
Selection on Observed and Unobserved Variables: Assessing the Effectiveness of Catholic Schools
Journal of Political Economy , volume 1131 , p. 151 - 184 Posted: 2005
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-Section and Time Series Effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Y Amihud , S Levi
The Effect of Stock Liquidity on the Firm's Investment and Production
Review of Financial Studies , volume 36 , p. 1094 - 1147 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19,617
ABSTRACT VIEWS
44,862
RANK
396
144 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies