Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of CSR in Protecting Financial Performance during the Macro Shock

21 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2021

Shuran Dong

University of Western Ontario, Richard Ivey School of Business

Date Written: April 23, 2021

Abstract

I focus on how CSR rating and CSR compensation contracts help the financial performance when the market suffers a macro shock based on the 2008-2009 financial crisis. Specifically, I examine that both CSR rating and CSR compensation contracts are positively correlated with financial performance. I also study on six main components of CSR rating to find how each of them is linked to financial performance. Then, I focus on the 2008-2009 financial crisis period and attempt to find which kind of firms suffer less decrease in financial performance during the macro shock. My results show that having CSR compensation contracts and high CSR rating can protect firms’ financial performance during the economic recession, and CSR compensation contracts related to community and environmental factors provide the largest help of downside protection. Furthermore, the current COVID pandemic has negatively affected firms’ performance, so my study gives some indications on how to use CSR compensation contracts to improve this situation.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Corporate social responsibility, CSR contract, executive compensation, financial performance

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Shuran, The Role of CSR in Protecting Financial Performance during the Macro Shock (April 23, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3833149 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3833149
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
S J Cho , C Y Chung , J Young
Study on the Relationship between CSR and Financial Performance
Sustainability , volume 11 , issue 2 Posted: 2019
Crossref
C Flammer , B Hong , D Minor
Corporate governance and the rise of integrating corporate social responsibility criteria in executive compensation: Effectiveness and implications for firm outcomes
Strategic Management Journal , volume 40 , issue 7 , p. 1097 - 1122 Posted: 2019
Crossref
H Fauzi , K Idris
The relationship of CSR and financial performance: New evidence from Indonesian companies
Issues in Social and Environmental Accounting , volume 3 , issue 1 Posted: 2009
Crossref
K Gilchrist
The coronavirus downturn has highlighted a growing investment opportunity -and millennials love it Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
647
RANK
560,264
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies