Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of COVID-19 on the Corporate Governance: A Case Study on Bajaj Finance Ltd and Infosys

Shanlax International Journal of Management, vol. 8, no. 4, 2021, pp. 17-23

Posted: 26 Apr 2021

Samira Patra

Model Degree College

Jnanaranjan Das

Kendrapara Autonomous College

Date Written: April 01, 2021

Abstract

Introduction: The Novel Coronavirus has been bringing various revolutionary dynamic aspects to the World. It taught us many useful lessons. The COVID-19 has an impact on almost all human and economic activities. Lakhs of people have retrenched from their jobs in the India Corporate Sectors. The Indian Corporate Sectors have been affected slightly in the Financial Year 2019- 20, but it will have a severe impact in the current and future financial years. It can also seem in the Corporate Governance of the different companies in India. It has inherent commercial risks impacting business operations due to disruptions to Meetings, Dividends, Liquidity, Disclosure, Capital Allocation, Risk Management, and Internal Control.

Research Gap: A lot of researches have been undertaken on the impact of COVID-19 in India. No remarkable studies have been conducted on the Impact of COVID-19 in the Corporate Governance of Bajaj Finance Ltd and Infosys.

Objectives: This paper attempt to study the impact of COVID-19 on the Corporate Governance of Bajaj Finance Ltd and Infosys.

Research Methodology
Nature and Sources of Data: The present study is based on secondary data. The secondary data have been collected through a well-designed strategy. These have been collected from various e-journals, e-magazines, e-annual reports of companies, and various reputed websites.
Tools of Analysis: There are various statistical tools, i.e., percentage calculations, correlation, and t-Test have used for analysis and interpretation of results.

Conclusions: COVID-19 pandemic comes with inherent commercial risks impacting business operations due to disruptions to Meetings, Administration, Business Continuity, Dividend and Liquidity management, Disclosure, Capital Allocation, and Maintenance, and lastly, risk management and Internal Control.

Keywords: Corporate governance, COVID-19, Business operations, Risk management, Internal control

Suggested Citation:

Patra, Samira and Das, Jnanaranjan, Impact of COVID-19 on the Corporate Governance: A Case Study on Bajaj Finance Ltd and Infosys (April 01, 2021). Shanlax International Journal of Management, vol. 8, no. 4, 2021, pp. 17-23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3833372
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,357
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies