Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability of Low Cost and Simplicity in Airline Industry:A Case of Indigo

Tiwari, R., Singh, M., Mathur, S. (2018). Sustainability of low cost and simplicity in airline industry: a case of Indigo. International Journal of Management, Technology and Engineering. 8(12), 6034-6044

11 Pages Posted: 3 May 2021

Rajesh Tiwari

Graphic Era Deemed to be University

Manish Kumar Singh

International Institute of Management Studies (IIMS), Pune

Shanu Kumar Mathur

International Institute of Management Studies (IIMS), Pune

Date Written: December 31, 2018

Abstract

This case study demonstrates the significance of low cost and simplicity as a strategy for startup firm to gain leadership position in the market. After using leasing model for many years Indigo is planning to change from single aircraft model to multiple aircraft model, leasing model to owning aircraft model. How did Indigo achieve consistent profits in the airline industry struggling for profits? What were the unique strategies used by Indigo for operational excellence? How did the company use cost and simplicity not only as a strategy but also as a culture to achieve excellence? Why Indigo is changing its successful leasing model and what would be the consequences? Can Indigo manage growth in diverse market segments at the same time?

Keywords: IndiGo, Sale-and-Leaseback, Low Cost Carriers, Startup, Simplicity

JEL Classification: M13, M14

Suggested Citation:

Tiwari, Rajesh and Singh, Manish Kumar and Mathur, Shanu Kumar, Sustainability of Low Cost and Simplicity in Airline Industry:A Case of Indigo (December 31, 2018). Tiwari, R., Singh, M., Mathur, S. (2018). Sustainability of low cost and simplicity in airline industry: a case of Indigo. International Journal of Management, Technology and Engineering. 8(12), 6034-6044, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3833340
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
A Choudhury , John , S
RakeshGangwal& Rahul Bhatia: Men behind Posted: 2015
About Posted: 2018-02-25
B Prabhakar
How IndiGo's Aditya Ghosh is the only airline boss still flying, Economic Times dated Posted: 2012
Annual Report IndiGo , p. 2016 - 2033
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,322
RANK
41,085
4 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Policies & Processes eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies