Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Study on Influence Factors of Working Capital and Turnover Ratios

18 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2021

Ruoqing Han

University of Western Ontario, Richard Ivey School of Business

Date Written: April 23, 2021

Abstract

During the pandemic, companies have received various degrees of impact. Therefore, it has a social significance to discuss the influence factors of working capital management, allowing companies to better recover from the financial crisis. This paper compares the sector performances in terms of the working capital during the pandemic crisis first. Then, it analyzes the relationship between the working capital and the leverage ratio, the firm size, the revenue, and the capital expenditure during the whole dataset period and discusses the difference between the effects during the normal period and the pandemic period as well. It also finds the impacts of the same dependent variables on the payables turnover, receivables turnover, and inventory turnover to check the influences on the operation efficiency.

Keywords: Working capital, Accounts payable, Inventory, Accounts Receivable

Suggested Citation:

Han, Ruoqing, Empirical Study on Influence Factors of Working Capital and Turnover Ratios (April 23, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3833039 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3833039
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
309
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,100
RANK
224,339
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies