Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Relations, Engagement, and Shareholder Activism

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2021 Last revised: 22 Jan 2022

Kimball Chapman
Gregory S. Miller

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Jed Neilson

Pennsylvania State University

Hal D. White

University of Notre Dame

Date Written: February 5, 2021

Abstract

A dedicated investor relations (IR) function facilitates direct and ongoing dialogue between management and shareholders. This paper examines whether this form of engagement mitigates activism that relies upon support from other shareholders. We find that IR engagement is associated with increased investor confidence in management and the board, as well as a lower likelihood of activism, with this deterrent effect becoming stronger when there are fewer frictions surrounding the development of mutual understanding and trust with investors. We also find that when firms do experience an activist campaign, firms with IR engagement have less costly and contentious campaigns, including a lower likelihood of CEO turnover, than those without such a commitment. Taken together, our findings suggest that direct and ongoing IR engagement is an important factor in achieving mutual understanding and trust between the firm and its shareholders, which deters activist investors and mitigates the costly escalation of initiated campaigns.

Keywords: Shareholder Activism, Shareholder Engagement, Investor Relations, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G10, G32, G34, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chapman, Kimball and Miller, Gregory S. and Neilson, Jed and White, Hal D., Investor Relations, Engagement, and Shareholder Activism (February 5, 2021). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3834544 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3834544
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
M Becht , J Franks , C Mayer , S Rossi
Returns to shareholder activism: Evidence from a clinical study of the Hermes UK Focus Fund. The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 3093 - 3129 Posted: 2009
J E Bethel , J P Liebeskind , T Opler
Block share purchases and corporate performance
The Journal of Finance , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 605 - 634 Posted: 1998
Blackrock
A Sense of Purpose. Annual Letter to CEOs Posted: 2018
T Bourveau , J Schoenfeld
Shareholder Activism and Voluntary Disclosure
Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming. Available at SSRN Posted: 2017-05-25
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,028
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,060
RANK
50,383
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies