Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Corporate Objective Revisited: The Shareholder Perspective

Journal of Management Studies, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2021

Maria L. Goranova

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee

Lori Verstegen Ryan

San Diego State University - Management

Date Written: April 26, 2021

Abstract

Shareholder value maximization has spurred a long-standing and heated debate between the proponents of a unified corporate objective function and the supporters of multi-constituency goals of the corporation. We weigh in on the corporate purpose debate from a different point of view: that of the shareholders. Specifically, we seek to critically assess the assumptions about shareholders embedded in the shareholder value maximization doctrine and examine the implications of three contemporary shareholding practices: (a) shareholders investing concurrently in competing firms, (b) residual-risk bearing decoupling, and (c) heterogeneous shareholder interests. Our critique draws out the challenges that contemporary shareholder practices pose for corporate governance and highlights the need for strategic corporate governance, or governance policies and practices that prioritize the sustainable competitive advantage of the firm.

Keywords: corporate purpose, heterogeneous shareholder interests, investing in competing firms, residual-risk decoupling, strategic corporate governance

JEL Classification: G3, L2, M1

Suggested Citation:

Goranova, Maria L. and Verstegen Ryan, Lori, The Corporate Objective Revisited: The Shareholder Perspective (April 26, 2021). Journal of Management Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3834113
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
200 References
R Adner , P Zemsky
A demand-based perspective on sustainable competitive advantage
Strategic Management Journal , volume 27 , p. 215 - 239 Posted: 2006
Crossref
V Agarwal , R Vashishtha , M Venkatachalam
Mutual fund transparency and corporate myopia
Review of Financial Studies , volume 31 Posted: 1966
Crossref
M Aglietta , A Rebérioux
Corporate Governance Adrift: A Critique of Shareholder Value Posted: 2005
A K Agrawal
Corporate governance objectives of labor union shareholders: Evidence from proxy voting
Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 , p. 187 - 226 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
955
RANK
312,896
200 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies