Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Case for a Best Execution Principle in Cross-border Payments

University of Luxembourg Law Research Paper No. 2021-002

UNSW Law Research Paper No. 21-45

Bocconi Legal Studies Research Paper No. 3834335

Forthcoming Journal of Business Law

38 Pages Posted: 4 May 2021 Last revised: 29 Nov 2021

Dirk A. Zetzsche

Universite du Luxembourg - Faculty of Law, Economics and Finance; European Banking Institute

Ross P. Buckley

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - UNSW Law & Justice

Douglas W. Arner

The University of Hong Kong; The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Law

Maria Lucia Passador

Bocconi University - Department of Law; Stanford University - Transatlantic Technology Law Forum (TTLF) Fellow; European Banking Institute; Harvard University - Harvard Law School

Date Written: April 26, 2021

Abstract

Cross-border payments suffer from a lack of speed and transparency and limited access, resulting in higher overall costs than domestic payments. This paper analyses how the best execution principle developed in the context of securities and derivatives could be applied to cross-border payments. Under that principle, financial institutions are legally required to provide the most advantageous order execution in terms of speed, risks and costs for their customers given the prevailing market environment.

We argue that introducing best execution could alter the current set-up of cross-border payments which rests, for the most part, on a system of large, globally connected correspondent banks. The current system is best understood as one of “best friends”, in that the relationship among payment institutions determines through which institutions orders are routed. In turn, payment institutions charge their clients on a “cost plus profit” basis. Some of the payment institutions even benefit from rebates based on liquidity volume (kick-backs) and from reduced rates and soft commissions elsewhere in the payment chain. Overall, there is little incentive for payment institutions to truly put their clients first in terms of speed, costs and risks in the current “best friends” environment. Introducing “best execution” is potentially a game changer: it would require payment institutions to focus on their clients’ interests (i.e., when choosing the route the order is to take).

Based on experience with the best execution principle enshrined in securities law, we would expect the large-scale introduction of digital routing systems to identify the offer that constitutes best execution. Furthermore, we expect that more links between correspondent banks, new service providers from the FinTech space, and public payment networks (including regional integration systems) would be established and would assist in identifying excess liquidity in infrequently traded currency pairs. While none of this requires distributed ledger technology, strictu sensu, one convenient way, technically, to achieve that purpose is by implementing a distributed ledger that functions, initially, as a digital liquidity marketplace (a pure information sharing device) and, which in time, could be further developed into a “best execution platform”.

Keywords: Cross-border payments, best execution, payments, correspondent bank, closed-loop systems, competition, multilateral systems, artificial intelligence, distributed ledger, blockchain.

JEL Classification: G21, G23, K22, K23.

Suggested Citation:

Zetzsche, Dirk Andreas and Buckley, Ross P. and Arner, Douglas W. and Passador, Maria Lucia, The Case for a Best Execution Principle in Cross-border Payments (April 26, 2021). University of Luxembourg Law Research Paper No. 2021-002, UNSW Law Research Paper No. 21-45, Bocconi Legal Studies Research Paper No. 3834335, Forthcoming Journal of Business Law, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3834335 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3834335
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Ibid 19 Fn , p. 28 - 29
For an in-depth analysis, and historical outlook, see SEC, 'Rule 611 of Regulation NMS -Memo to SEC Market Structure Advisory Committee' (Memorandum Posted: 2015-04-30
Sec
Disclosure of Order Handling Information
17 CFR Parts 240 and 242 , p. S7 - 14
Cf
Regulation NMS Adopting Release
70 F.R , volume 37496 Posted: 2005-06
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
678
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,785
RANK
88,127
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Law & Justice Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Bocconi University Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies