Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Current Year Audit Opinion and Next Year Audit Fees: Does Family Ownership Matter?

Scientific Journal for Financial and Commercial Studies and Researches -Faculty of Commerce – Damietta, University, Vol. 2, No. 1, Part 1, 2021, pp. 643-683.

54 Pages Posted: 5 May 2021

Hebatallah Abd El Salam Badawy

Alexandria University; Egypt Japan University of Science and Technology

Date Written: January 1, 2021

Abstract

The paper aims to investigate the association between current year audit opinion and the pricing of the next year audit mission and whether this relationship differs with different nature of ownership (family – non-family) in the Egyptian setting. Using a sample of 358 firm-year observations from the Egyptian Stock Exchange (EGX hereafter) over the period 2016-2019, ordinary least square (OLS) regression models are estimated to test the research hypotheses and conduct sensitivity and additional analyses. The author didn’t find significant association between current year audit opinion and next year audit fees. However, if the auditor issues a qualified audit opinion for a family firm, he will ask for a fee premium for the next year audit mission. Results are robust to alternative measures of next year audit fees and current year audit opinion. The paper uses the current year audit opinion as an input to the next year audit pricing decision. The paper responds to previous calls to investigate the relationship between audit fees and type of audit opinion and the impact of family ownership on audit fees. In addition, this study uses three alternative measures of next year audit fees and an alternative measure of current year audit opinion. Finally, this study adds evidence to the corporate governance literature in developing countries.


Keywords: Audit fees, audit opinion, family ownership, Egypt

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Badawy, Hebatallah, Current Year Audit Opinion and Next Year Audit Fees: Does Family Ownership Matter? (January 1, 2021). Scientific Journal for Financial and Commercial Studies and Researches -Faculty of Commerce – Damietta, University, Vol. 2, No. 1, Part 1, 2021, pp. 643-683., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3835664
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
U Akpom
Multiple Regression Analysis of Company and Audit Firm Characteristics to Predict Audit Fees in Nigeria Posted: 2016
J Al-Okaily
The Effect of Family Control on Audit Fees during Financial Crisis
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 35 , issue 5 , p. 645 - 665 Posted: 2020
Crossref
A Alzeban , N Sawan
The Relationship between Adherence of Internal Audit with Standards and Audit Fees
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 72 - 85 Posted: 2016
Crossref
A Barua , M Hossain , D Rama
Financial versus Operating Liability Leverage and Audit Fees
International Journal of Auditing , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 231 - 244 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
502
RANK
864,457
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies