Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Coronavirus Crisis on the Liquidity and Capital Structure of the Banking Sector in Egypt: A Professional Accounting Perspective

19 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2021

Hebatallah Abd El Salam Badawy

Alexandria University; Egypt Japan University of Science and Technology

Date Written: December 2020

Abstract

Coronavirus pandemic has its significant and severe effects on the operations of different businesses all over the world and consequently on the banking sector, which is of great importance and represents an important source of credit to individuals and corporations. The objective of this paper is to investigate the impact of coronavirus pandemic on the liquidity, as measured by cash flows from operations and the capital structure, as measured by the leverage level, of the banks listed on the Egyptian Stock Exchange (EGX). Based on a sample of 9 listed banks on EGX during the period 2019-2020, the author found no significant effect of coronavirus pandemic on the liquidity of the banks listed on EGX. However, statistical results showed that coronavirus pandemic has a significant effect on the capital structure of the listed banks. Research results imply that the strategies set by the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) and followed by the listed banks are highly effective in absorbing the negative impact of coronavirus pandemic on the banking industry. Based on these findings, the author recommends more research to be conducted to investigate the impact of coronavirus pandemic on other aspects related to the banking industry; such as profitability and market value.

Keywords: COVID-19, Liquidity, Capital structure, Banks, Egyptian Stock Exchange, Accounting perspective

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Badawy, Hebatallah, Effect of Coronavirus Crisis on the Liquidity and Capital Structure of the Banking Sector in Egypt: A Professional Accounting Perspective (December 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3835698 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3835698
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
C Adel , N Zafar , N Yaseen
Empirical Analysis of Determinants of Dividend Payout: Profitability and Liquidity
Interdisciplinary Journal of Contemporary Research in Business , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 289 - 300 Posted: 2011
COVID-19's Impact on Egypt's Banking Sector Posted: 2020
d=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwipvP3b-N7sAhWBtHEKHZZ
Crossref
Busqfjadegqibrac&amp;url=https%3a%2f%2fwww
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
383
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,393
RANK
177,110
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies