Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Do Strategic Projects Fail?

27 Pages Posted: 5 May 2021

Sasanka Sekhar Chanda

Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Indore

Sougata Ray

IIM Calcutta

Date Written: April 29, 2021

Abstract

There is no dearth of literature inquiring into the reasons for failure of strategic projects—major organization change efforts involving significant, irreversible commitment of resources. However, researchers have failed to go beyond blaming company managers, for example by observing that managers function in silos, protect own turf to the detriment of the project and escalate commitment to failing courses. Yet, in other situations, the same managers obtain excellent organizational outcomes. Thus, there is a need for inquiring into more distal causes of failure embedded in micro-level organizational arrangements. We study the failure of a strategic project by Burawoy’s extended case method. This approach applies reflexive science to ethnography to extract the general from the particular, facilitating a move from the micro to the macro level. We find that administrative tenets drawing from dominant management orthodoxies—setting direction and settling issues by fiat, rigorously metering accomplishment of organizational members to goals committed to ahead of time, and swift punishment upon deviation from commitments—give rise to dysfunctions that lead to failure of a strategic project. We offer practical advice to managers to help lower the risk of failure of a strategic project. We suggest that, in order to foster the level of coordination necessary in an organization-wide change project, it is necessary that internal and external stakeholders provide reassurance there shall be no sanctions when project goals morph over time as the organization progresses on the execution path through trial-and-error learning. Specifically, relaxation of near-term performance expectations is necessary.

Keywords: project failure, ethnography and reflexivity, organizational change, supply chain management system, interdependence, dark side of transaction cost economics theory, escalation of commitment, silo

Suggested Citation:

Chanda, Sasanka Sekhar and Ray, Sougata, Why Do Strategic Projects Fail? (April 29, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3836325 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3836325
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
N S Argyres , J P Liebeskind
Contractual commitments, bargaining power, and governance inseparability: Incorporating history into transaction cost theory
Management Review , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 63 Posted: 1999
Crossref
C Argyris
Single-loop and double-loop models in research on decision making
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 363 - 375 Posted: 1976
Crossref
R Ashkenas
The dangers of deference
Harvard Business Review Posted: 2011-10-31
P Atkinson , M Hammersley
Ethnography and participant observation
Handbook of Qualitative Research , p. 248 - 261 Posted: 1994
Load more
1 Citations
Sasanka Sekhar Chanda
Enabling Creative Destruction: A View from the Perspective of Managerial Control
Journal of Contemporary Business Research , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 8 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
773
RANK
360,957
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies