Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trade Transparency and Management Earnings Forecasts

46 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2021 Last revised: 1 Jun 2025

Deniz Anginer

Simon Fraser University (SFU)

Snow (Xue) Han

San Francisco State University

Çelim Yıldızhan

Koç University; University of Nevada Las Vegas

Date Written: September 20, 2024

Abstract

Employing a plausibly exogenous shock that increased the extent to which private information is revealed in debt markets – the implementation of the Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine (TRACE) - we document a change in long-run management earnings forecast policy. We find that managers decreased their forecast frequency over the three-year period post-TRACE. The decline was greater for bad news management earnings forecasts, when the pre-disclosure information environment was weaker, and for firms closer to credit default. These findings, taken in conjunction with prior findings of increases in earnings forecasting activity in response to declines in the strength of the information environment, suggest that the inverse relationship between changes in the strength of the information environment and management earnings forecasting activity is symmetrical. Our results also suggest that prior research understates the informational benefits of TRACE because of the decline in management earnings forecasting pursuant to TRACE.

Keywords: TRACE, Management Disclosure, Information Transparency

JEL Classification: M48, G14, G18, G38

Suggested Citation:

Anginer, Deniz and Han, Xue and Yıldızhan, Çelim, Trade Transparency and Management Earnings Forecasts (September 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3836179 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3836179
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Asset pricing and the bid-ask spread
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 17 , p. 223 - 249 Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
847
RANK
538,134
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies