Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance Norms

12 Pages Posted: 11 May 2021

Dr Gopalakrishnan Ramasubramanian

Ramasubramanian & Associates; GR Resources Legal

Date Written: April 30, 2021

Abstract

Corporate Governance norms are dynamic and keeps evolving due to the changes in economic scene, business needs. It is, therefore, important that the norms setter is aware of this dynamism and act on the requirement before it becomes an issue. Proper norms ensure that there are good policies in place, which cater to the required local needs, protect the stakeholders and increase shareholders wealth legally, besides keeping a window open always for further improvements.

A clear set of norms for professional behavior can build trust among the various individuals, institutions etc., such corporate entities such as Public Limited and Listed, Public Limited- Un Listed, Private Limited and Banking Companies.


Suggested Citation:

Ramasubramanian, Gopal, Governance Norms (April 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3837221 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3837221
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
The Companies Act, 2013 and Rules framed thereunder
CG documents in the website of the Institute of Company Secretaries of India
Crossref
See RBI Circular on appointment etc of Statutory Auditors , holding of office, remuneration etc dated 27 th Posted: 2021-04
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
621
RANK
864,457
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies