Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Planning Knowledge Diffusion via the Labor Market

University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2019-64

65 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2021 Last revised: 12 Oct 2022

John Manuel Barrios

Yale School of Management; National Bureau of Economic Research

John Gallemore

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 2022

Abstract

We examine the extent to which the labor market facilitates the diffusion of tax planning knowledge across firms. Using a novel dataset of tax department employee movements between S&P 1500 firms, we find that firms experience an increase in their tax planning after hiring a tax employee from a tax aggressive firm. This finding is robust to various research designs and specifications. Consistent with tax planning knowledge driving the result, we find that the tax planning benefits are more substantial when the employee is involved in a director-level role and has more experience. Further tests suggest that tax planning knowledge is highly specific in nature: the increase in tax avoidance is larger when the hiring and former firms are similar (i.e., operating in the same sector or having similar foreign operations), and firms are more likely to hire tax department employees from firms with similar characteristics. Finally, we do not find that the prior firm’s tax planning changes after the employee leaves the firm, suggesting that the tax planning knowledge simply spreads to the hiring firm and does not leave the prior firm. Our study documents the first-order role of the labor market in the diffusion of tax planning knowledge across firms, and our findings suggest that tax department human capital is a central determinant of tax planning outcomes.

Keywords: : tax planning, tax avoidance, tax departments, employee movements, human capital

JEL Classification: H25, H26, J23, J24, J44

Suggested Citation:

Barrios, John Manuel and Gallemore, John, Tax Planning Knowledge Diffusion via the Labor Market (October 2022). University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2019-64, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3837455 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3837455
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
T J Allen
Managing the flow of technology: Technology transfer and the dissemination of technological information within the R&D organization Posted: 1984
P Almeida , B Kogut
Localization of knowledge and the mobility of engineers in regional networks
Management Science , volume 45 , issue 7 , p. 905 - 917 Posted: 1999
L Argote , P Ingram
Knowledge transfer: A basis for competitive advantage in firms
Organizational behavior and human decision processes , volume 82 , issue 1 , p. 150 - 169 Posted: 2000
L Argote , E Miron-Spektor
Organizational learning: From experience to knowledge
Organization Science , volume 22 , issue 5 , p. 1123 - 1137 Posted: 2011
Load more
2 Citations
Chuchu Liang , Ben Lourie , Alexander Nekrasov
Does the Risk Aversion of Accountants Matter? Female Rank-and-File Accounting Employees and Internal Control Quality
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming · 38 Pages · Posted: 9 Jan 2020 · Last revised: 17 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 416
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John (Xuefeng) Jiang , Guanmin Liao , Ling Na Belinda Yau , Yizhuao Zhao
Occupational Licensing of Corporate Accountants and Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence from a Natural Experiment in China
61 Pages · Posted: 17 Jan 2024 · Last revised: 20 May 2025 · Downloads: 230
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,199
RANK
124,488
2 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies