Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Company Auditing Around the Securities Exchange Act: Historical Lessons for ESG Assurance

Columbia Business School Research Paper

79 Pages Posted: 5 May 2021 Last revised: 5 Jan 2025

Thomas Bourveau

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Matthias Breuer

Goethe University Frankfurt

Jeroen Koenraadt

London School of Economics and Political Science

Robert Stoumbos

ESSEC Business School

Date Written: April 30, 2021

Abstract

We describe the development of public company auditing in the U.S. in the early 20th century to gain perspective on current developments in ESG assurance. Using a broad sample of historical annual reports spanning four decades, we document three facts: First, the spread of public company auditing occurred steadily over the span of several decades. Second, audit services were initially heterogeneous but became standardized through the audit profession's efforts and interactions with other private and public sector actors. Third, the role of regulation in those early developments was seemingly limited to codifying existing practices, as the first federal audit regulation was introduced only late in the development of the profession and did not significantly impact capital markets. Our historical evidence on the early development of public company auditing helps us understand how we arrived at today's widely accepted and highly regulated financial audits. It uncovers parallels to and offers lessons for current developments in ESG assurance.

Keywords: Public Companies, Auditing, Regulation, Securities Exchange Act

JEL Classification: G18, G34, M42

Suggested Citation:

Bourveau, Thomas and Breuer, Matthias and Koenraadt, Jeroen and Stoumbos, Robert,
Public Company Auditing Around the Securities Exchange Act: Historical Lessons for ESG Assurance
(April 30, 2021). Columbia Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3837593 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3837593
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
183 References
D Acemoglu , C García-Jimeno , J A Robinson
State Capacity and Economic Development: A Network Approach
American Economic Review , volume 105 , p. 2364 - 2409 Posted: 2015
C Ai , E Norton
Interaction Terms in Logit and Probit Models , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and How Investors Use ESG Information: Evidence from a Global Survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-section and Time-series Effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,802
RANK
45,635
5 Citations
183 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies