Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Work from Home, Managerial Sentiment, and Corporate Liquidity Management: Evidence from COVID-19

59 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2021 Last revised: 19 Dec 2022

Lilian Ng

York University - Schulich School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Jing Yu

The University of Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Linyang Yu

York University - Schulich School of Business

Date Written: December 7, 2022

Abstract

This study exploits the pandemic-triggered adoption of remote work as a natural experiment to
systematically analyze whether and how it affects management’s subjective judgment through its
effect on their sentiment. Using the granularity of foot traffic data, we show that work from home
dampens managerial sentiment through two psychological mechanisms: social isolation and work
stress. This baseline result is robust to the identification test exploiting the implementation of
stay-at-home orders across the United States. Further analyses suggest that the induced negative
sentiment elevates managers’ perceived risk, driving them to accumulate more cash. However, such cash buildup destroys shareholder value.

Keywords: COVID-19, Work from Home, Managerial Sentiment, Corporate Cash Policy

JEL Classification: G02, G32, G39

Suggested Citation:

Ng, Lilian and Yu, Jing and Yu, Linyang, Work from Home, Managerial Sentiment, and Corporate Liquidity Management: Evidence from COVID-19 (December 7, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3837134 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3837134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous information flows and the clustering of announcements , volume 101 , p. 2955 - 2979 Posted: 2011
V Acharya , S Steffen
The risk of being a fallen angel and the corporate dash for cash in the midst of COVID
Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , p. 430 - 471 Posted: 2020
L B Aknin
Mental health during the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic: A review and recommendations for moving forward
Perspectives on Psychological Science Posted: 2021
H Almeida , M Campello , M S Weisbach
The cash flow sensitivity of cash
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 1777 - 1804 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
420
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,358
RANK
160,264
4 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies