Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disproportionate Insider Control and the Informativeness of Stock Returns about Future Earnings

55 Pages Posted: 5 May 2021 Last revised: 12 Sep 2022

Jason Bangert

University of Cincinnati - Lindner College of Business

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Roy Schmardebeck

The University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Date Written: April 30, 2021

Abstract

We test whether agency conflicts generated by the divergence between insider voting rights and cash flow rights (i.e., disproportionate insider control) within dual-class firms reduce the informativeness of stock returns about future earnings. We find that the future earnings response coefficient (FERC), which measures the extent to which current returns incorporate future earnings news, is decreasing in disproportionate insider control, but the negative relation between disproportionate insider control and the FERC is weaker when institutional ownership is high and when managers provide more disclosure (i.e., greater disaggregation in mandatory reports, voluntary management guidance, and voluntary Form 8-K filings). Collectively, our findings reveal that although agency conflicts inherent in dual-class firms weaken the information environment, bonding and monitoring achieved via more disclosure and a more sophisticated investor base can help to alleviate agency problems arising from disproportionate insider control while allowing firms to take advantage of the benefits that a dual-class ownership structure affords.

Keywords: Future earnings response coefficient (FERC), agency costs, disproportionate insider control, dual-class ownership, ownership structure

JEL Classification: M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bangert, Jason and Myers, Linda A. and Schmardebeck, Roy, Disproportionate Insider Control and the Informativeness of Stock Returns about Future Earnings (April 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3837651 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3837651
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
I Abramova , J E Core , A Sutherland
Institutional investor attention and firm disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2020
B C Ayers , R N Freeman
Evidence that analyst following and institutional ownership accelerate the pricing of future earnings
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 8 , p. 47 - 67 Posted: 2003
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
L Baran , A Forst , M T Via
Dual class share structure and innovation Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,392
RANK
405,251
1 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies