Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigating the Effect of Disclosure and Transparency on Family Firms’ Performance in Pakistan

Waseemullah, Sajid Mehmood, Muhammad Sajid Amin, Muneeb Ahmad, Muhammad Umer Quddoos, Investigating the Effect of Disclosure and Transparency on Family Firms’ Performance in Pakistan, International Journal of Advanced Research in Engineering and Technology, 11(9), 2020, pp. 1178-1183.

6 Pages Posted: 7 May 2021

Waseemullah Atif Riaz

Center for Advanced Studies in Engineering-CASE

Sajid Mehmood

Lecturer in University of Gujrat, Gujrat, Pakistan

Muhammad Sajid Amin

The Islamia University of Bahawalpur

Muneeb Ahmad

Jiangxi University of Finance and Economics

Muhammad Umer Quddoos

Assistant Professor, Department of Commerce, Bahauddin Zakariya University, Multan, Pakistan

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

This study examine the impact of disclosure & transparency on family firms’ performance in Pakistan. A disclosure & transparency index is developed on basis of corporate governance practices. Return on assets (ROA) is used as performance measure. In order to estimate the relationship between disclosure index and firm performance, GMM is used. The researchers find support in favor of positive disclosure index-performance relationship. Good corporate governance (CG) practices pertained to disclosure & transparency contribute to enhanced monitoring strength of a firms that plays key positive role in affecting firm performance in Pakistan.

Keywords: Online banking, security, risk perception

Suggested Citation:

Atif Riaz, Waseemullah and Mehmood, Sajid and Amin, Muhammad Sajid and Ahmad, Muneeb and quddoos, Muhammad Umer, Investigating the Effect of Disclosure and Transparency on Family Firms’ Performance in Pakistan (2020). Waseemullah, Sajid Mehmood, Muhammad Sajid Amin, Muneeb Ahmad, Muhammad Umer Quddoos, Investigating the Effect of Disclosure and Transparency on Family Firms’ Performance in Pakistan, International Journal of Advanced Research in Engineering and Technology, 11(9), 2020, pp. 1178-1183., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3837863
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
A Abdo , G Fisher
The impact of reported corporate governance disclosure on the financial performance of companies listed on the JSE
Investment Analysts Journal , volume 66 , p. 43 - 56 Posted: 2007
Crossref
B Adiloglu , B Vuran
The relationship between the financial ratios and transparency levels of financial information disclosures within the scope of corporate governance: Evidence from Turkey
Journal of Applied Business Research , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 543 - 554 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Crossref
A Arora , C Sharma
Corporate governance and firm performance in developing countries: Evidence from India
Corporate Governance , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 420 - 436 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
557
RANK
667,795
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies