Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Strategy: The Influence of Strategic Competitiveness on Competitive Advantage

Ali, B. J., & Anwar, G. (2021). Business strategy: The influence of Strategic Competitiveness on competitive advantage. International Journal of Electrical, Electronics and Computers, 6(2), 1–10. https://dx.doi.org/10.22161/eec.62.1

10 Pages Posted: 6 May 2021

Bayad Jamal Ali

Komar University for Science and Technology

Govand Anwar

Knowledge University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 30, 2021

Abstract

The study's aim was to look into the different aspects of strategic competitiveness and how they affect competitive advantage in the private sector in Iraq's Kurdistan region. The researchers used four Strategic Competitiveness dimensions to assess the current analysis (Competitive strategies, innovation culture, managerial ethics, and Innovative Ideas). In order to interpret the current analysis, a quantitative methodology was used. The technique or process that the researcher is willing to accept in selecting objects for the sample is referred to as sample design. The research sample was chosen using a random sampling method and was carried out in various banks. A total of 125 questionnaires were distributed, but only 112 participants completed them correctly. Competitive strategies as a Strategic Competitiveness dimension has an important and positive impact on competitive advantage at a 5% level, according to the findings. The findings indicate that the Strategic Competitiveness dimension of Skills & Competencies has an important and positive impact on competitive advantage at a 5% stage. The findings show that entrepreneurial thought has an important and positive impact on the Strategic Competitiveness dimension, with a competitive advantage of 5%. The findings indicate that the Strategic Competitiveness dimension of Innovative Ideas has an important and positive impact on competitive advantage at a 5% stage. Furthermore, all beta values are greater than.001. The modified R2 for all models is quite large (0.693, 0.621, 0.712, and 0.763, respectively), meaning that the models' ability to explain variance in competitive advantage due to variation in independent variables is quite good. The F-value indicates that the explanatory variables in the model are jointly statistically important, and the Durbin-Watson (DW) statistics indicate that the models have autocorrelation.

Keywords: Competitiveness strategies, competitive advantage, Business Strategy

Suggested Citation:

Ali, Bayad Jamal and Anwar, Govand, Business Strategy: The Influence of Strategic Competitiveness on Competitive Advantage (April 30, 2021). Ali, B. J., & Anwar, G. (2021). Business strategy: The influence of Strategic Competitiveness on competitive advantage. International Journal of Electrical, Electronics and Computers, 6(2), 1–10. https://dx.doi.org/10.22161/eec.62.1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3837292
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
A Verbeke , W Yuan
A few implications of the covid-19 pandemic for international business strategy research
Journal of Management Studies , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 597 - 601 Posted: 2021
Crossref
A Demir , L Maroof , N U S Khan , B J Ali
The role of E-service quality in shaping online meeting platforms: a case study from higher education sector
Journal of Applied Research in Higher Education , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2020
Crossref
G Anwar , B Zebari
The Relationship between Employee Engagement and Corporate Social Responsibility: A Case Study of Car Dealership in Erbil
Kurdistan. International Journal of Social Sciences & Educational Studies , volume 2 , issue 2 Posted: 2015
J Zhu , M R Chertow
Business strategy under institutional constraints: evidence from China's energy efficiency regulations
Ecological economics , volume 135 , p. 10 - 21 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
22 Citations
Bawan Yassin Sabir , Baban Jabbar Othman , Bayar Gardi , Nechirwan Burhan Ismael , Pshdar Abdalla Hamza , Sarhang Sorguli , Hassan Mahmood Aziz , Shahla Ali Ahmed , Bayad Jamal Ali , Govand Anwar
Administrative Decentralization: The Transfer of Competency from The Ministry of Education to General Directorates
International Journal of Rural Development, Environment and Health Research (IJREH), Vol-5, Issue-3, May-Jun, 2021 · 13 Pages · Posted: 27 May 2021 · Downloads: 457
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bayad Jamal Ali , Govand Anwar , Bayar Gardi , Baban Jabbar Othman , Hassan Mahmood Aziz , Shahla Ali Ahmed , Pshdar Abdalla Hamza , Nechirwan Burhan Ismael , Sarhang Sorguli , Bawan Yassin Sabir
Business Communication Strategies: Analysis of Internal Communication Processes
Ali, B. J., Anwar, G., Gardi, B., Othman, B. J., Aziz, H. M., Ahmed, S. A., Hamza, P. A., Ismael, N. B., Sorguli, S., Sabir, B. Y. (2021). Business Communication Strategies: Analysis of Internal Communication Processes. Journal of Humanities and Education Development, 3(3), 16–38. https://doi.org/10, · 23 Pages · Posted: 27 May 2021 · Downloads: 9,336
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bayad Jamal Ali , Bayar Gardi , Baban Jabbar Othman , Nechirwan Burhan Ismael , Sarhang Sorguli , Bawan Yassin Sabir , Shahla Ali Ahmed , Pshdar Abdalla Hamza , Hassan Mahmood Aziz , Govand Anwar
Educational System: The Policy of Educational System in Kurdistan Region in Public Kindergarten
Ali, B. J., Gardi, B., Othman, B. J., Ismael, N. B., Sorguli, S., Sabir, B. Y., Ahmed, S. A., Hamza, P. A., Aziz, H. M., Anwar, G. (2021). Educational system: The policy of Educational system in Kurdistan Region in public Kindergarten. International Journal of English Literature and Social Sciences, · 10 Pages · Posted: 27 May 2021 · Downloads: 594
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hassan Mahmood Aziz , Baban Jabbar Othman , Bayar Gardi , Shahla Ali Ahmed , Bawan Yassin Sabir , Nechirwan Burhan Ismael , Pshdar Abdalla Hamza , Sarhang Sorguli , Bayad Jamal Ali , Govand Anwar
Employee Commitment: The Relationship between Employee Commitment and Job Satisfaction
Aziz, H. M., Othman, B. J., Gardi, B., Ahmed, S. A., Sabir, B. Y., Ismael, N. B., Hamza, P. A., Sorguli, S., Ali, B. J., Anwar, G. (2021). Employee Commitment: The Relationship between Employee Commitment And Job Satisfaction. Journal of Humanities and Education Development, 3(3), 54–66, · 13 Pages · Posted: 27 May 2021 · Downloads: 8,261
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,755
RANK
3,234
22 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies