Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigating the Effects of Financial Accounting Reports on Managerial Decision Making in Small and Medium-sized Enterprises

9 Pages Posted: 5 May 2021 Last revised: 8 May 2021

Bayar Gardi

Knowledge University - Department of Accounting

Pshdar Abdalla Hamza

Cyprus International University

Bawan Yassin Sabir

Knowledge University - College of Administration and Financial Sciences

Hassan Mahmood Aziz

Knowledge University - College of Administration and Financial Sciences

Sarhang Sorguli

Knowledge University - College of Administration and Financial Sciences

Nabaz Nawzad Abdullah

Knowledge University - Department of Business Administration

Farhad Al-Kake

Knowledge University - College of Administration and Financial Sciences

Date Written: April 28, 2021

Abstract

Financial accounting reports plays a major role in keeping track of all financial transactions. The management decision-making relies on accounting information, including the income statement, and cash flow statement reports recorded in corporate financial statements. Each financial statement for publicly traded companies shall be created and reported to the Securities and Exchange Commission following the financial accounting standards established by the Financial Accounting Standard Board. This current study examines the impacts of financial accounting reporting on management decision-making in small and medium-sized companies in Iraq. The study also investigates the management's attitude towards capital allocation to identify whether it maximizes the effectiveness of the decision. For this purpose, cross-sectional data analysis was used, and the data was collected from 250 respondents from managers and employees working in SMEs through a structured questionnaire. The study indicates the effectiveness of managerial decisions is substantially influenced by the financial statement report. The other operational considerations such as company records, understandability of reports, and quality of the data have a major impact on the managerial decision of the SME firms. The study identified understandability, relevance, and quality of the financial reports mediates a positive correlation between financial accounting reports and managerial decisions.

Keywords: Financial Reports, Financial Accounting Reporting, Managerial Decision, Management Decision Making

Suggested Citation:

Gardi, Bayar and Abdalla Hamza, Pshdar and Sabir, Bawan Yassin and Mahmood Aziz, Hassan and Sorguli, Sarhang and Abdullah, Nabaz Nawzad and Al-Kake, farhad, Investigating the Effects of Financial Accounting Reports on Managerial Decision Making in Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (April 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3838226 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3838226
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Nabaz Nawzad Abdullah , Nabaz Nawzad Abdullah , Mohd Abdul Rahman
The Use of Deliberative Democracy in Public Policy Making Process
Abdullah, N. N. & Rahman, M. F. A. (2015). The Use of Deliberative Democracy in Public Policy Making Process. Public Policy and Administration Research, 5 (3), 221-229. Pages: 10 Posted: 24 Apr 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
N N Abdullah , M B Othman
Examining the effects of intellectual capital on the performance of Malaysian food and beverage small and medium-sized enterprises
Technology (IJCIET) , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 135 - 143 Posted: 2019
N N Abdullah , M B Othman
Examining the effects of intellectual capital on the performance of Malaysian food and beverage small and medium-sized enterprises
Technology (IJCIET) , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 135 - 143 Posted: 2019
Nabaz Nawzad Abdullah , Nabaz Nawzad Abdullah , Mohd Abdul Rahman
Access to Government Information in Public Policy Making Process: A Case Study of Kurdistan
Abdullah, N. N., & Rahman, M. F. A. (2015). Access to Government Information in Public Policy Making Process: A Case Study of Kurdistan. International Information Institute (Tokyo). Information, 18(8), 3447. Pages: 11 Posted: 24 Apr 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
22 Citations
Baratadewa Sakti Perdana , AM Muh Hafidz Ma’shum , Susminingsih Susminingsih
Evaluation of the effectiveness of the ‘3-in-1’ financial reporting model in supporting the sustainability of MSMEs
Accounting and Financial Control , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 16 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Leonidas Theodorakopoulos , Alexandra Theodoropoulou , Georgios Kampiotis , Ioanna Kalliampakou
NeuralACT: Accounting Analytics Using Neural Network for Real-Time Decision Making From Big Data
IEEE Access , volume 13 , p. 8621 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Investigating the Influence of Managerial Accounting Techniques on the Financial Performance and Sustainability of SMEs
International Journal of Management and Accounting , p. 160 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Ika Berty Apriliyani , Rudi Zulfikar , Elvin Bastian , Helmi Yazid
Audit Quality in the Modern Era: The Significance of Auditor Personality and Features
Data and Metadata , volume 4 , p. 882 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,463
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,544
RANK
2,688
22 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies