Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Whether Auditors’ Resignation Affects India’s Corporate Governance Standards: A Stricter Regime to Curb the Same?

17 Pages Posted: 5 May 2021

Tanisha Papdiwal

O.P. Jindal Global University

Date Written: Jan 3, 2021

Abstract

In the recent decades, India has witnessed huge number of corporate scandals which have severely endangered the economic progress of the country. The increase in corporate frauds poses questions on the effectiveness of present corporate governance regime and often calls for a complete overhaul and redemption of the system. The phenomenon of auditor resignation is not a new anomaly and unprecedented but the rate at which it is increasing is quite alarming. During the past few years, audit as a profession has faced several challenges in India. The audit failures had gone unnoticed but the innumerable auditor resignations and increased regulatory scrutiny have brought the issue into spotlight. The issue of auditor resignation is of sufficient interest to the legal community as accounting scandals adversely affects the entire stakeholder community including shareholders and investors. In response to recent spate in auditors’ resignation, the new Companies Act 2013, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and National Finance Reporting Authority (NFRA) have taken up several measures to act against erring auditors and improve the overall audit system. However, as the clamour grows for strict action against the auditors, the profession finds itself at a crossroads hinting upon the weak regulations and enforcement strategies.

This paper focuses primarily on the issue of resignation of statutory auditors as there is a recent surge in the auditors’ resignation. The first part of the paper provides a background about the issue of auditor resignation and the law governing it. The second part focuses on the cases of auditor resignation in India and analyses the reasons behind such resignations. The third part engages in the critical analysis of the existing legal framework and the recent developments in terms of regulations and enforcement mechanism that have come in place to tackle and prevent such audit failures. The fourth part concludes the paper by giving plausible reforms and suggestions to redefine and structure the existing legal framework.


Keywords: Auditor Resignation, Corporate Governance, Auditor Independence, Audit Failure, Big Four, Audit Committee, Non-Audit Services

JEL Classification: M40, M42, G32, G18, K22

Suggested Citation:

Papdiwal, Tanisha, Whether Auditors’ Resignation Affects India’s Corporate Governance Standards: A Stricter Regime to Curb the Same? (Jan 3, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3838544 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3838544
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Vinod Mahanta , Sachin Dave
Manpasand Decoded: 30 Auditors Resigned from Indian Companies, ECONOMIC TIMES Posted: 2020-07-18
Price Waterhouse quits as statutory auditor of GVK Power; cite non-cooperation
ECONOMIC TIMES Posted: 2020-10-20
Samie Modak
Fee discord stokes company-auditor divorces amid Covid-19 pandemic Posted: 2020-07-23
Corinne Abrams
India Bans PricewaterhouseCoopers from Auditing Listed Firms for Two Years, 2 WSJ 44 , p. 456 - 78 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,337
RANK
413,842
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies