Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statement Comparability and Corporate Tax Strategy

46 Pages Posted: 5 May 2021

Hyun A. Hong

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management

Jiwoo Ryou

West Virginia University

Anup Srivastava

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Date Written: April 26, 2021

Abstract

We investigate whether a firm’s financial statement comparability is associated with the firm’s tax strategy. We hypothesize that external observers (e.g., press, shareholders, analysts, and tax authorities) can better detect a firm’s atypical tax strategy when the firm has high financial statement comparability with its industry peers. Detection and its consequent penalties should restrain firm managers from choosing tax strategies that deviate significantly from those of industry peers. Using firms’ uncertain tax benefits (UTBs) as a proxy for tax avoidance, we find that the UTBs of firms with high financial statement comparability move toward their industry peers in subsequent periods. Results suggest that comparability reduces tax aggressiveness for high tax-avoidance firms and enhances tax aggressiveness for low tax-avoidance firms, in comparison with those of industry peers. Overall, these findings indicate a strong within-industry harmonization in tax avoidance for firms with high financial statement comparability.

Keywords: Financial statement comparability, Tax distance, Tax aggressiveness, Undersheltering, IRS detection, Manager’s incentives

JEL Classification: H26, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hong, Hyun A. and Ryou, Jiwoo and Srivastava, Anup, Financial Statement Comparability and Corporate Tax Strategy (April 26, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3838276 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3838276
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
J Chircop , D W Collins , L H Hass
Accounting comparability and corporate innovative efficiency
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , p. 127 - 151 Posted: 2020
Crossref
J A Chyz , F B Gaertner
Can paying "too much" or "too little" tax contribute to forced CEO turnover?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , p. 103 - 130 Posted: 2017
Crossref
P M Dechow , I D Dichev
The quality of accruals and earnings: The role of accrual estimation errors
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 35 - 59 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M Defond , X Hu , M Hung , S Li
The impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on foreign mutual fund ownership: The role of comparability
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 51 , p. 240 - 258 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
382
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,225
RANK
177,635
2 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies