Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
State of Information Technology Adoption by Internal Audit Department in Malaysian Public Sector

International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues, 2016, 6(S7) 103-108.

6 Pages Posted: 9 May 2021

Aidi Ahmi

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Siti Zabedah Saidin

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Akilah Abdullah

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Ayoib Che-Ahmad

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Noor Azizi Ismail

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: April 30, 2016

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to discuss the level of information technology (IT) adoption by Internal Audit Unit (IAU) in Malaysian public sector, the types of the IT applications implemented and the purposes of its implementation. In recent years, internal auditors have begun to realize the important of IT to perform their audit tasks. Specifically, the use of computer assisted auditing tools and techniques can help in terms of audit efficiency and effectiveness. This research employed an online and mail survey method to gather data from 266 head of internal auditors in Malaysian public sector. The results show that the level of IT adoption by IAU in Malaysian public sector is high. However, with regards to the usage of IT specifically in auditing, it is considerably low despite the huge benefits that have been offered by the technology. Due to the nature of the data collection method, the study might reflect the perfection of the respondents which may not translate into actual practice. Further research should consider a field study to examine the real issue regarding the IT implementation in public sector.

Keywords: Information Technology Adoption, Internal Audit Unit, Malaysian Public Sector, Computer Assisted Auditing Tools and Techniques

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Ahmi, Aidi and Saidin, Siti Zabedah and Abdullah, Akilah and Che-Ahmad, Ayoib and Ismail, Noor Azizi, State of Information Technology Adoption by Internal Audit Department in Malaysian Public Sector (April 30, 2016). International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues, 2016, 6(S7) 103-108., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3839837
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
A A Abu-Musa
Information technology and its implications for internal auditing: An empirical study of Saudi organizations
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 23 , issue 5 , p. 438 - 466 Posted: 2008
A M Ali , J D Cloeck , A Ali , A Ahmi , M H Sahdan
Internal audit in the state and local governments of Malaysia
Southern African Journal of Accountability and Auditing Research , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 57 Posted: 2007
Auditor
Auditing Through the Computer and Auditing Around the Computer Explained Posted: 2010
Auditor-General&apos;s Office Singapore
IT Audit Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
639
RANK
524,565
1 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies