Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Disclosures and Opportunism: Evidence from Repurchases

Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming

73 Pages Posted: 11 May 2021 Last revised: 13 Mar 2025

Brian Bratten

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Meng Huang

University of Toledo

Nicole Thorne Jenkins

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Hong Xie

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Date Written: February 24, 2024

Abstract

We examine the effect of disclosure requirements on managers’ stock repurchase decisions. In 2003, the SEC amended Rule 10b-18, significantly increasing the disclosure requirements for and transparency of stock repurchases for all issuers. While stock repurchases are often used by firms to efficiently return capital to shareholders, they can also be used opportunistically to increase earnings per share. We find that the 2003 SEC amendment enables investors to detect and discount opportunistic repurchases, curtails the extent to which firms use opportunistic repurchases, and reduces or eliminates the negative real effects stemming from opportunistic repurchases (reduced employment, reduced capital expenditures, and reduced R&D expenditures). Our evidence suggests that disclosures aimed at increasing the transparency of firms’ activities can significantly reduce the extent to which firms use these activities opportunistically to manage earnings, thereby reducing the accompanying real consequences of opportunistic behavior.

Keywords: Transparency; mandatory disclosure; repurchases; earnings management; and fuzzy regression discontinuity design.

Suggested Citation:

Bratten, Brian and Huang, Meng and Jenkins, Nicole Thorne and Xie, Hong, Mandatory Disclosures and Opportunism: Evidence from Repurchases (February 24, 2024). Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3839651 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3839651
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
H Almeida , V Fos , M Kronlund
The real effects of share repurchases
J. of Financ. Econ , volume 119 , issue 1 , p. 168 - 185 Posted: 2016
S Arif , N T Marshall , J H Schroeder , T L Yohn
A growing disparity in earnings disclosure mechanism: The rise of concurrently released earnings announcements and 10 Posted: 2019
J. of Account. and Econ , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 28
M J Barclay , C W Smith
Corporate payout policy: Cash dividends versus open market repurchases
J. of Financ. Econ , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 82 Posted: 1988
Load more
1 Citations
Anne Albrecht , Matt Glendening , Kyonghee Kim , Kwang J. Lee
Material changes in accounting estimates and the usefulness of earnings
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 1320 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
250
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,353
RANK
279,521
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies