Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Human Capital Disclosure: What Do Companies Say About Their 'Most Important Asset'?

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming

8 Pages Posted: 5 May 2021

Amit Batish

Equilar

Andrew Gordon

Equilar

John D. Kepler

Stanford Graduate School of Business

David F. Larcker

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Stanford University - Hoover Institution; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Brian Tayan

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Courtney Yu

Equilar

Date Written: May 5, 2021

Abstract

In 2020, the Securities and Exchange Commission revised human capital disclosure rules to improve shareholder understanding of how HCM contributes to corporate value and strategy. In this Closer Look, we examine early disclosure choices that companies have made under these rules to evaluate the information they share about employment practices. We find that while some companies are transparent in explaining the philosophy, design, and focus of their HCM, most disclosure is boilerplate and lacks quantitative metrics. As such, the new rules appear to contribute to the length but not the informativeness of 10-K disclosure.

We ask:
• Are companies being evasive, or are they in the early stages of determining what information is relevant to the market?
• Will market pressure lead to better disclosure over time?
• Can a company provide informative disclosure without providing concrete metrics?
• Is there a way to describe comprehensive HCM efforts in concise and informative language, supplemented with data, in a manner that does not reveal proprietary practices?

Keywords: Corporate governance, human capital management, HCM, incentives systems, disclosure, diversity, SEC, disclosure, talent development, metrics, employee satisfaction, engagement, safety, compensation, annual bonus, long-term incentives, corporate governance research

Suggested Citation:

Batish, Amit and Gordon, Andrew and Kepler, John and Larcker, David F. and Tayan, Brian and Yu, Courtney, Human Capital Disclosure: What Do Companies Say About Their 'Most Important Asset'? (May 5, 2021). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3840412
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
National Fuel Gas Co, Form , volume 10 Posted: 2020-11-20
Crossref
Toro Co
Form 10-K Posted: 2020-12-18
Crossref
Tyson Foods , Inc
Form 10-K Posted: 2020-11-16
Form 10-K Posted: 2020-12-17
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,578
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,114
RANK
26,921
4 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies