Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Firms with Specialized M&A Staff Make Better Acquisitions?

Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2021-03-006

Charles A. Dice Working Paper No. 2021-006

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 778/2021

81 Pages Posted: 5 May 2021

Sinan Gokkaya

Department of Finance, Ohio University

Xi Liu

Miami University of Ohio - Richard T. Farmer School of Business Administration

René M. Stulz

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Finance; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: April 30, 2021

Abstract

We open the black box of the M&A decision process by constructing a comprehensive sample of US firms with specialized M&A staff. We investigate whether specialized M&A staff improves acquisition performance or facilitates managerial empire building instead. We find that firms with specialized M&A staff make better acquisitions when acquisition performance is measured by stock price reactions to announcements, long-run stock returns, operating performance, divestitures, and analyst earnings forecasts. This effect does not hold when the CEO is powerful, overconfident, or entrenched. Acquisitions by firms without specialized staff do not create value, on average. We provide evidence on mechanisms through which specialized M&A staff improves acquisition performance. For identification, we use the staggered recognition of inevitable disclosure doctrine as a source of exogenous variation in the employment of specialized M&A staff.

Keywords: Mergers and acquisitions, acquisitions, corporate takeover market, corporate development, M&A staff

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G14, G24

Suggested Citation:

Gokkaya, Sinan and Liu, Xi and Stulz, Rene M., Do Firms with Specialized M&A Staff Make Better Acquisitions? (April 30, 2021). Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2021-03-006, Charles A. Dice Working Paper No. 2021-006, European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 778/2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3840238 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3840238
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
Information on corporate development managers is from Boardex of Management Diagnostic Limited Individual with supplementary data from LinkedIn.com, Bloomberg, Reuters, and Marquis Who's Who databases. The M&A sample is drawn from the Thomson One Platinum Securities Data Company M&A database (SDC) and includes a sample of U.S. public, private, and subsidiary acquisitions announced over the period
This table presents ordinary least squares (OLS) regression analyses of cumulative abnormal returns (CARs) on specialized M&A staff, acquirer-, and deal-specific characteristics Posted: 2000-01-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
933
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,368
RANK
57,555
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University, Fisher College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies