Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Increasing Usefulness of Annual Earnings Announcements: An Examination of Changes in Disagreement Using Analyst Forecasts

41 Pages Posted: 18 May 2021

Orie E. Barron

Pennsylvania State University

Richard A. Schneible Jr.

State University of New York (SUNY) at Albany

Douglas E. Stevens

Georgia State University - Robinson College of Business

Date Written: May 7, 2021

Abstract

Researchers in accounting have recently provided evidence of a striking increase in the usefulness of earnings announcements based on stock market price and volume reactions (Beaver et al., 2018; Barron et al., 2018). Price reactions, however, are unable to capture investor disagreement and volume reactions capture both the resolution of prior disagreement and newfound disagreement generated by earnings announcements. Thus, it remains to be determined if earnings announcements have become increasingly useful in leveling the informational playing field, a key public policy objective of financial reporting. To address this possibility, we examine changes in disagreement around annual earnings announcements over the last forty years using analyst forecast measures found in the literature. First, we show that forecast dispersion is reduced around earnings announcements and this reduction has increased over time. Next, we use a forecast measure of informedness from Barron et al. (1998) to show that analysts as a group are more informed by earnings announcements in recent time periods. Finally, we use Barron et al.’s forecast measure of consensus to show that the ability of earnings announcements to make analysts more commonly informed has increased over time.

Keywords: Earnings announcements, Analysts forecasts, Disagreement, Leveling the Playing Field

JEL Classification: G14, G17, G18, G29, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Barron, Orie E. and Schneible, Richard and Stevens, Douglas E., The Increasing Usefulness of Annual Earnings Announcements: An Examination of Changes in Disagreement Using Analyst Forecasts (May 7, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3841772 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3841772
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,121
RANK
325,744
2 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies