Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Twice Sold: A Look at Resold Acquisitions and Earnings Management

63 Pages Posted: 10 May 2021 Last revised: 7 Feb 2023

Lyungmae Choi

The University of Newcastle

Shawn X. Huang

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Min Kim

Sogang University

Date Written: August 09, 2024

Abstract

This study explores an interesting phenomenon in which some acquirers buy and own target firms for a period of time and then resell these firms to other companies. We show that these resold acquisitions can potentially serve as a signal for initial-acquisition failures, as evidenced by acquisition resellers experiencing deteriorated economic performance and increased financial difficulty after initial acquisitions. We hypothesize that given acquisition failures, resellers may face greater incentives to engage in earnings management to improve the appeal of targets they want to resell so they can discard value-destroying targets more quickly and at higher prices to recover losses incurred during initial acquisitions. Consistent with the prediction, we find that subsequent acquirers of resold targets are more likely to restate earnings downward post-acquisition than acquirers of non-resold targets. Additional analyses show that acquiring resold targets is detrimental to subsequent acquirers, as they experience a higher likelihood of goodwill impairment, and are less likely to acquire resold targets again in the future than acquirers of non-resold targets. Cross-sectional tests reveal more (less) pronounced effects among targets resold by serial resellers and professional investors and among subsequent acquirers with low-quality auditors and internal audit exemptions of acquired targets (among transactions involving high-quality mergers and acquisitions advisors).

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Acquisition Reseller, Reselling, Earnings Management JEL Classification: G32, G34, M40, M41

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Lyungmae and Huang, Shawn X. and Kim, Min, Twice Sold: A Look at Resold Acquisitions and Earnings Management (August 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3841732 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3841732
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
J Aharony , C J Lin , M P Loeb
Initial public offerings, accounting choices, and earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 81 Posted: 1993
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: A multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
G Andrade , M Mitchell , E Stafford
New evidence and perspectives on mergers
The Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,248
RANK
315,603
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies