Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Turnover, Leadership Vacuum, and Stock Market Reactions

Applied Economics, Forthcoming

39 Pages Posted: 10 May 2021

Jeong Hwan Joo

Business Administration School, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology

Jihun Bae

City University London

Date Written: May 1, 2021

Abstract

CEO departures with a delay in successor appointment create a leadership vacuum inducing operational disruption and strategic uncertainty. Such departures also produce turnaround benefits from cutting ties with a poorly performing CEO and by allowing additional time to search for a qualified successor. Prior studies fail to disentangle these perceived costs and benefits associated with CEO dismissal. After filtering out the turnaround benefits, we find the market reacts incrementally negatively to CEO departure announcements with a delay in successor appointment than those without such delay, capturing incremental switching costs caused by a leadership vacuum. We also find that the leadership vacuum cost is larger in a more volatile environment or with abandonment of a relay succession plan. Our findings contribute to CEO turnover literature by suggesting that a temporary leadership vacuum is an indicator of abandonment of a succession plan that has been influenced by a poorly performing CEO and that such abandonment creates an opportunity to achieve performance turnaround through a better successor.

Keywords: CEO turnover, interim CEO, leadership vacuum, turnaround benefit, switching cost, stock market reaction

JEL Classification: G14, G30, G34, M12

Suggested Citation:

Joo, Jeong Hwan and Bae, Jihun, CEO Turnover, Leadership Vacuum, and Stock Market Reactions (May 1, 2021). Applied Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3842639
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Yannan Sun
Value of Continuity: The Empirical Study of CEO Leadership Delay on Firms’ Digital Transformation
30 Pages · Posted: 16 May 2024 · Downloads: 6
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
980
RANK
527,931
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies