Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of the Quality of External Board Evaluation in the UK

Sobhan, A. and Adegbite, E. (2021) Determinants of the quality of external board evaluation in the UK. Corporate Governance, Forthcoming.

Posted: 10 May 2021

Emmanuel Adegbite

University of Nottingham

Abdus Sobhan

Northumbria University

Date Written: May 9, 2021

Abstract

Purpose – This study examines the influence of the following on the quality of externally facilitated board evaluation: timing of adoption of external board evaluation, type of evaluators, and the independence of external facilitators.

Design/methodology/approach – The statements on board evaluation in annual reports of a sample of FTSE 350 companies were content analysed to measure the quality of externally facilitated board evaluation. We then used descriptive analysis and inferential statistics to demonstrate the possible association between the timing of adoption as well as the type and independence of external facilitators, and the quality of externally facilitated board evaluation.

Findings – Results reveal some effects of the timing of adoption as well as the type and independence of external facilitators on the quality of externally facilitated board evaluation.

Practical implications – Shareholders should be aware of the timing of adoption as well as consider the types and independence of external facilitators, given their influence on the quality of externally facilitated board evaluation. Regulatory authorities should provide more specific guidance on what types of professional organisations can be engaged as external facilitators and on the implementation of externally facilitated board evaluation, in order to promote its quality.

Originality/value – Several studies have provided theoretical accounts on how board evaluation should be conducted to ensure its effectiveness. However, there is a dearth of empirical literature, which examines the quality of externally facilitated board evaluation. This study develops a quality measure for externally facilitated board evaluation and shows the effect of the timing of adoption, types and independence of external facilitators on its quality. Our study forges ahead an institutional theorising of external board evaluation.


Keywords: Board evaluation, institutional theory, external facilitators, content analysis, United Kingdom

Suggested Citation:

Adegbite, Emmanuel and Sobhan, Abdus, Determinants of the Quality of External Board Evaluation in the UK (May 9, 2021). Sobhan, A. and Adegbite, E. (2021) Determinants of the quality of external board evaluation in the UK. Corporate Governance, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3842528
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
306
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies