Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental Accounting Disclosures and Financial Performance in India

Recent Advances in Fields of Accounting, Finance and Management, 2021 Weser Books, Germany 978-3-96492-255-7

25 Pages Posted: 12 May 2021

Aditi Khandelwal

IIS University

Ankita Chaturvedi

IIS (deemed to be University)

Date Written: May 8, 2021

Abstract

The current research study aspires to examine the outcome of environmental accounting on financial performance amongst top 100 companies of Indian origin as per their market-cap in the year financial year 2018-19. For measuring independent variables in this study environmental index for environmental disclosure has been used. ROA, EPS, ROE and Profit Margin are used as the dependent variables for the study to act as the parameter for measurement of financial performance. No noteworthy relationship was found between TED, Profit Margin and EPS. The multivariate test shows that Environmental Disclosures have a significant effect on ROA and ROE. On the basis of the analysis, it is suggested that the Indian companies need to keep pace with the regulatory framework put in place by the government and other regulatory bodies. This will ensure that the companies invest in improving their environmental performance records which in turn would have positive effect Shareholder’s Net Worth.

Keywords: Environmental Accounting, Financial Performance, Return on Asset (ROA), Return on Equity (ROE), Earnings per Share (EPS), Net Profit Margin, Environmental Accounting Disclosures, Total Environmental Disclosures (TED)

Suggested Citation:

Khandelwal, Aditi and Chaturvedi, Ankita, Environmental Accounting Disclosures and Financial Performance in India (May 8, 2021). Recent Advances in Fields of Accounting, Finance and Management, 2021 Weser Books, Germany 978-3-96492-255-7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3842705 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3842705
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
W Aerts , D Cormier , I M Gordon , M Magnan
Performance disclosure on the web: an exploration of the impact of managers' perceptions of stakeholder concerns
The International Journal of Digital Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 12 , p. 159 - 194 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
John MacCarthy
The Effect of Sustainability Reporting on the Firm’s Value: Application of Panel Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) Approach
Journal of African Business , p. 1 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
696
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,021
RANK
85,245
1 Citations
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies