Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can an Agency Role-Reversal Lead to an Organizational Collapse?; A Study Proposal

10 Pages Posted: 11 May 2021

Joseph Haimberg

Portland State University - Hatfield School of Government

Date Written: May 10, 2021

Abstract

The Principal-Agent Theory model is widely used to explain governance role where there is a separation of ownership and control, as it defines clear boundaries between governance and executives. However, examination of recent corporate failures reveals the concerning contribution of the Board of Directors to such failures and calls into question governance effectiveness in the presence of a powerful and charismatic CEO. This study proposes a framework for analyzing the relationship between the Board of Directors and the CEO, and how certain relationships affect the power structure and behavior of the Board, which leads to a role reversal in the Principal-Agent Theory, as the Board assumes the role of the CEO’s agent. This study’s results may help create “red flags” for a board and leader’s behavior that may result in governance failure.

Keywords: Agency Theory, Agency Theory Role Reversal, Principal-Agent Role Reversal, Board of Directors Behavior, Psychological Dynamics, Governance, Governance Failure, Organizational Behavior

Suggested Citation:

Haimberg, Joseph, Can an Agency Role-Reversal Lead to an Organizational Collapse?; A Study Proposal (May 10, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3843328 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3843328
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Do directors perform for pay?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 171 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J A Alexander , B J Weiner
The adoption of the corporate governance model by non-profit organizations
Nonprofit Management & Leadership , volume 8 , p. 223 - 242 Posted: 1998
Crossref
S E Asch
Studies of Independence and Conformity: A Minority of One Against a Unanimous Majority
Psychological Monographs , volume 70 , issue 9 Posted: 1956
Crossref
R J Bies , T M Tripp
Two Faces of the Powerless: Coping with Tyranny in Organizations Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
330
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Psychology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies