Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Search, Product Market Competition and CEO Pay

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 12 May 2021

Hae Won (Henny) Jung

University of Melbourne - Department of Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Ajay Subramanian

Georgia State University

Date Written: May 11, 2021

Abstract

We develop a market equilibrium model to show how search frictions in the CEO market, agency conflicts and product market characteristics interact to affect CEO market tightness, firm size and CEO incentive pay. The theory generates novel implications that link firms' product markets with CEO markets. Different determinants of competition—the entry cost, product substitutability, and market size—have contrasting effects on CEO market tightness, CEO pay and firm size. We also derive new predictions for the impact of product market risk on firm size and CEO incentive compensation. We show empirical support for several cross-sectional hypotheses derived from the theory for how CEO pay, CEO incentives, firm size and market tightness vary with product market characteristics.

Keywords: Search frictions, CEO Market, CEO Pay, Product Market Competition

Suggested Citation:

Jung, Hae Won (Henny) and Subramanian, Ajay, Search, Product Market Competition and CEO Pay (May 11, 2021). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3843732
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Daron Acemoglu , Robert Shimer
Efficient unemployment insurance
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , p. 893 - 928 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Alberto Alesina , Francesco Giavazzi
The future of Europe: Reform or decline Posted: 2006
George P Baker , Brian J Hall
CEO incentives and firm size
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 22 , p. 767 - 798 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Nina Baranchuk , Glenn Macdonald
The economics of super managers
Review of Financial Studies , volume 24 , p. 3321 - 3368 Posted: 2011-06
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Lorán Chollete , Irina Merkurieva
Do Frictions Matter in the Market for Chief Executives?
60 Pages · Posted: 28 Sep 2021 · Last revised: 24 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 98
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yao Du , Iftekhar Hasan , Chih-Yung Lin , Chien-Lin Lu
CEO personality traits and structure of compensation
52 Pages · Posted: 28 Mar 2022 · Downloads: 703
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lorán Chollete , Ching-Chih Lu , Irina Merkurieva
The Efficiency Premium in Executive Compensation
60 Pages · Posted: 8 Dec 2022 · Last revised: 1 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 132
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,304
RANK
580,030
3 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies