Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lending Relationships along Ownership Lines: Institutional Cross-Ownership and Bank Loan Contracts

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

48 Pages Posted: 12 May 2021 Last revised: 14 Oct 2025

Zhiming Ma

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Edward Owens

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Derrald Stice

The University of Hong Kong - School of Business; HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Danye Wang

University of Iowa

Date Written: October 14, 2025

Abstract

We find that banking relationships built through institutional cross-ownership influence the granting of loans as well as loan contract terms. Specifically, firms newly added to institutional cross-owners’ portfolios are more likely to borrow from banks that previously issued loans to other firms within the same portfolio. These related banks also charge lower loan interest spreads and offer greater loan amounts than other banks issuing loans to the same borrower. The interest spread effect is stronger for borrowers with high information asymmetry, low accounting quality, more financial distress risk, and dedicated institutional common owners. The results are robust to different fixed effects specifications as well as to an identification strategy that exploits common ownership stemming from financial institution mergers. Overall, our study provides new insights on the role of institutional cross-ownership in the formation of lending relationships.

Keywords: Debt contracting, Cross-ownership, Lending relationships, institutional blockholders

JEL Classification: G10, G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Zhiming and Owens, Edward and Stice, Derrald and Wang, Danye, Lending Relationships along Ownership Lines: Institutional Cross-Ownership and Bank Loan Contracts (October 14, 2025). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3843919 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3843919
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
P Asquith , A Beatty , J Weber
Performance pricing in bank debt contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2005
J Azar , M C Schmalz , I Tecu
Anti-competitive effects of common ownership
Journal of Finance , volume 73 , p. 1513 - 1565 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
438
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,922
RANK
152,310
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies