Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Insider Trading Windows

74 Pages Posted: 14 May 2021 Last revised: 17 Apr 2023

Wayne R. Guay

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Shawn Kim

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

David Tsui

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Date Written: April 11, 2023

Abstract

We use observed insider trades to assess the economic determinants of the enforcement of company-imposed insider trading restrictions. We find that the timing of quarterly allowed trading windows reflects concerns about information asymmetry, the strength of external monitoring, and executives’ liquidity needs. Enforced trading windows constrain optimistic insider trading activity, with insiders generating larger trading profits when boards set trading windows that are abnormally loose. We also identify and explore the enforcement of unscheduled, event-specific “ad hoc blackout windows” by firms engaged in material corporate events. Interestingly, the absence of insider trading in these windows is associated with contemporaneously higher information asymmetry. These periods are then followed by increased trading volume and higher stock returns, suggesting investors may not immediately incorporate all information conveyed by unscheduled trading restrictions.

Keywords: insider trading, blackout periods, corporate governance, information asymmetry, executive compensation

JEL Classification: G14, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Guay, Wayne R. and Kim, Shawn and Tsui, David, Determinants of Insider Trading Windows (April 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3844986 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3844986
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Brent W Ambrose , William L Megginson
The role of asset structure, ownership structure, and takeover defenses in determining acquisition likelihood
The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 27 , p. 575 - 589 Posted: 1992
J Bettis , John M Carr , Michael L Bizjak , Lemmon
Exercise behavior, valuation, and the incentive effects of employee stock options
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 76 , p. 445 - 470 Posted: 2005
J C Bettis , J L Coles , M L Lemmon
Corporate policies restricting trading by insiders
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 57 , p. 191 - 220 Posted: 2000
Elizabeth Blankespoor , Gregory S Miller , Hal D White
The role of dissemination in market liquidity: Evidence from firms' use of Twitter TM
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , p. 79 - 112 Posted: 2014
Load more
1 Citations
I. V. Tregub , A. S. Wagner
Using Machine Learning to Unveil the Dynamics of Insider Trading in Financial Markets
Review of Business and Economics Studies , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 81 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,863
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,005
RANK
20,836
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies