Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Corporate Governance to Crypto-Governance

13 Pages Posted: 12 May 2021

Sinclair Davidson

RMIT University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 12, 2021

Abstract

In this paper I examine governance from a corporate perspective and then apply some of those ideas to blockchain governance. There is no need to re-discover or reinvent governance. The principles of governance have been established and understood for a long time – what is new is blockchain technology. The technical innovation associated with blockchain masks some commonalities with the industrial economy. Organisations in need of governance are a nexus of contracts. Blockchain applications as organisations are a nexus of smart contracts. Once this perspective is adopted, it is very clear that blockchain governance cannot simply be a strategy to decentralise and then vote as a group on all decisions. I then explain why a hypothetical blockchain foundation would have concentrated control and would be a non-profit organisation.

Keywords: Blockchain, Governance, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G30, L20, L30, P11

Suggested Citation:

Davidson, Sinclair, From Corporate Governance to Crypto-Governance (May 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3844304 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3844304
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A Alchian
Reminiscences of errors: A tribute in honor of Dean William H. Meckling on his retirement Posted: 1983
M Aoki
Managerialism revisited in the light of bargaining-game theory
International Journal of Industrial Organization , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 1983
Crossref
C Berg , S Davidson , J Potts
Blockchain Technology as Economic Infrastructure: Revisiting the Electronic Markets Hypothesis
Frontiers in Blockchain Posted: 2019
Crossref
C Berg , S Davidson , J Potts
Proof of Work as a Three-Sided Market
Frontiers in Blockchain Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
515
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,330
RANK
110,225
4 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies