Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Insiders Use Audit Findings? Evidence from the Expanded Audit Report in the United Kingdom

Posted: 13 May 2021

Elizabeth F. Gutierrez

Universidad de Chile

Adriana Korczak

University of Bristol

Maria Vulcheva

Florida International University

Date Written: May 12, 2021

Abstract

In this paper, we examine the association between the contents of the expanded audit report, which was adopted in 2013, and insider trading in the United Kingdom. Pre/post analyses indicate that following adoption of the expanded report, the likelihood and volume of insider trading in the period between an earnings announcement and publication of the audit report do not change. In cross-sectional tests of the post-adoption period only, we find that insiders trade based on auditors’ materiality disclosures both before and after the expanded report is published, but the association between insider trading and the number of risks of material misstatement is significant only in the period after the report’s publication. We attribute our findings to the availability and ease of interpretation of audit disclosures and insiders’ desire to minimize their legal and reputational risks. Our findings speak to the usefulness of the mandated information in the expanded audit report and the importance of timing for audit report publication.

Keywords: expanded audit report; insiders; materiality; risks of material misstatement

JEL Classification: M42, M48, G14

Suggested Citation:

Gutierrez, Elizabeth F. and Korczak, Adriana and Vulcheva, Maria, Do Insiders Use Audit Findings? Evidence from the Expanded Audit Report in the United Kingdom (May 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3844689
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
616
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies