Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt Covenant Violations and Employee Safety

38 Pages Posted: 14 May 2021

Chandrani Chatterjee

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting

Lars Helge Haß

University of Strathclyde - Strathclyde Business School; Lancaster University - Lancaster University Management School

Paul Hribar

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting; University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Fani Kalogirou

UCP-Católica Lisbon School of Business and Economics

Date Written: May 12, 2021

Abstract

We study the impact of creditor control rights increases on rank-and-file employees. Using a regression discontinuity design, we provide evidence that workplace safety deteriorates when creditors gain bargaining power in the event of a debt covenant violation. The frequency of workplace injuries and illnesses increase more for firms with severe financing constraints and a less active labor union. These results are robust to entropy balancing and a host of alternative specifications. In sum, our results provide compelling evidence on how increased interference and cost-cutting pressures by creditors can impair the working conditions of employees.

Keywords: Debt Contracting, Covenant Violation, Employee Safety, Creditor Control Rights

JEL Classification: G32, G38, L1, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chatterjee, Chandrani and Haß, Lars Helge and Hribar, Paul and Kalogirou, Fani, Debt Covenant Violations and Employee Safety (May 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3844771 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3844771
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
S Balsam , Y Gu , C X Mao
Creditor influence and CEO compensation: Evidence from debt covenant violations
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 5 , p. 23 - 50 Posted: 2018
M D Beneish , E Press
Costs of technical violation of accounting-based debt covenants
Accounting Review , p. 233 - 257 Posted: 1993
J Caskey , N B Ozel
Earnings expectations and employee safety
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 63 , issue 1 , p. 121 - 141 Posted: 2017
S Chava , V K Nanda , S C Xiao
Impact of covenant violations on corporate R&D and innovation Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
409
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,719
RANK
164,283
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies