Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Evaluation of Conditional Conservatism and the Extent to Which This Is Attributable to the Recognition of Asset Impairments

36 Pages Posted: 13 May 2021

Andrew Dymock

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Brett J. Govendir

University of Technology Sydney (UTS); Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Peter Alfred Wells

University of Technology Sydney, Accounting Discipline Group ; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: May 13, 2021

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to evaluate the extent to which the phenomenon of conditional conservatism documented in the empirical literature (e.g., Basu, 1997) is a consequence of the recognition of asset impairments or whether it is attributable to accounting practices more generally, and whether it is pervasive across firms. The results for a sample of 2,488 Australian firms over the period 2007 to 2016 are inconsistent with the phenomenon as it has been discussed in the literature. For the full sample of firms there is a significant association between negative stock returns and earnings but there is not a significant association between positive stock returns and earnings. Evidence of whether this association between negative stock returns and earnings is attributable to asset impairments is equivocal. Where there is an external indicator of impairment (B>M) there is a symmetric association between stock price changes and earnings. Similarly, for firms with no external indicators of impairment (B

Keywords: AASB 136 / IAS 36 Impairment of assets, conditional conservatism

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Dymock, Andrew and Govendir, Brett J. and Wells, Peter Alfred, An Evaluation of Conditional Conservatism and the Extent to Which This Is Attributable to the Recognition of Asset Impairments (May 13, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3845231
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
521
RANK
724,439
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies