Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Antecedents of and Outcomes after Finance Committee Use

68 Pages Posted: 18 May 2021 Last revised: 22 Nov 2021

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Eunju (Ivy) Lee

Rowan University - Rohrer College of Business

Date Written: November 11, 2021

Abstract

We study why firms voluntarily create and use finance committees and whether firms realize benefits. Firms are more likely to have a finance committee when they have defined benefit pension plans, debt equity issuance, and active dividend payout. Capital expenditures, restructuring, material weaknesses in internal controls, and restatements are drivers of creating a finance committee. While we find a weak association between finance committee use and financial performance on average, we find that finance committees that are highly independent have better-performing investments. Finance committees contribute to lowering the cost of debt for firms with small audit committees.

Keywords: finance committee, corporate governance, board dynamics, financial expertise, committee interplay

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G35, M12, M4

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Sudipta and Lee, Ivy, Antecedents of and Outcomes after Finance Committee Use (November 11, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3845798 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3845798
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
R B Adams
What do boards do? Evidence from board committee and director compensation data Posted: 2003
R B Adams , V Ragunathan , R Tumarkin
Death by committee? An analysis of corporate board (sub-) committees
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 141 , issue 3 , p. 1119 - 1146 Posted: 2021
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
K Aretz , P F Pope
Real options models of the firm, capacity overhang, and the cross section of stock returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 73 , issue 3 , p. 1363 - 1415 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
822
RANK
531,260
1 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies