Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Proposed Corporate Social Responsibility Model to Develop a Coherent Sustainability Commitment

Journal of Contemporary Research in Business Administration and Economic Sciences, Vol. 1, No. 1, May, 2021

23 Pages Posted: 14 May 2021 Last revised: 17 May 2021

Tariq Hassaneen Ismail

Faculty of Commerce

Mohamed Adel Elhamy

Tanta Univerity

Nayera Abdeldayem Eltamboly

Tanta Univerity

Date Written: May 14, 2021

Abstract

This study develops a proposed model based on the Analytical Hierarchical Process model (AHP) and Standard and Poor's/ Egypt Stock Exchange Environmental, Social and Governance Index (S&P/EGX ESG) to measure and maximize the company's corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance. The results confirm that the company that successfully undertakes this model can develop a coherent sustainable disclosure commitment that contributes to a never-ending journey of continuous improvement in the company's CSR performance. Furthermore, based on the empirical results of the proposed model implemented at SC which is the targeted company used for the case study, we find that this model enables the company to identify, measure and track its CSR performance over three years from 2017 to 2019 and in comparison with the S&P/EGX ESG benchmark at the KPIs level. In addition, the researchers develop a sustainability outcomes report to reflect the strengths and weaknesses in the current situation of SC. Therefore, it enables the company to transparently communicate the results of its performance in a high-quality report, which finally contributes to the achievement of sustainable development as an end vision.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, governance, sustainable development, analytical hierarchical process model, EGX, Egypt

JEL Classification: C63, M14, M20, M34, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ismail, Tariq Hassaneen and Elhamy, Mohamed Adel and Eltamboly, Nayera Abdeldayem, A Proposed Corporate Social Responsibility Model to Develop a Coherent Sustainability Commitment (May 14, 2021). Journal of Contemporary Research in Business Administration and Economic Sciences, Vol. 1, No. 1, May, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3845827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
669
RANK
502,079
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies