Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Structure and Performance of Listed Family Firms in France

EL-CHAARANI (2009), These de Doctorat, Bordeaux University.

Posted: 25 May 2021

Hani El-Chaarani

Beirut Arab University

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

Currently, between the two ownership structures (DO: Dispersed Ownership Structure, and CO: Concentrated Ownership Structure), there is a third type of shareholder structure in France: the Controlling-Minority Structure: CMS), in which minority shareholders control their business with a small share of ownership. Indeed, this work examines the direct and indirect relationship between performance and minority control in the case of family businesses. We found a nonlinear relationship between performance and the ultimate controlling share of managers in family businesses. In addition, we have found that the family manager controlling the company in a minority and ultimate way, can use certain means (such as the debt policy, the separation between control and ownership and the size of the board of directors. ) in order to favor its control and its own profit to the detriment of the overall shareholder performance.



Keywords: Family Firms, Ownership Structure, Performance

Suggested Citation:

El-Chaarani, Hani, Ownership Structure and Performance of Listed Family Firms in France (2009). EL-CHAARANI (2009), These de Doctorat, Bordeaux University. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3845197
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
260
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies