Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Firms as Liquid as they Appear in Annual Reports?

46 Pages Posted: 14 May 2021

Rahman Khokhar

Saint Mary's University, Canada - Department of Finance, Information Systems & Management Science

Jiaping Qiu

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics; McMaster University - Michael G. DeGroote School of Business

Mohammad M. Rahaman

Saint Mary's University - Sobey School of Business

Date Written: May 13, 2021

Abstract

We find that firms report significantly higher cash holdings in the 4th fiscal quarter, followed by subsequent reversal. Such a phenomenon cannot be explained by traditional determinants of cash holdings, calendar year-end effect, and the choice of fiscal year-end quarter. We identify real, financial, and timing apparatuses that firms employ to maneuver such cash hike within a fiscal year. Furthermore, the 4th-quarter cash hike appears to be more pronounced for informationally opaque firms requiring frequent access to external capital markets and for firms with reduced external monitoring and lower financial constraints. Our results suggest that within-year cash holding dynamics is important in fully assessing the liquidity and credit-risk situations of firms.

Keywords: Cash hike, Cash holdings, Within-year cash dynamics, Marginal value of cash

JEL Classification: G32, G31, G34, R30

Suggested Citation:

Khokhar, Abdul Rahman and Qiu, Jiaping and Rahaman, Mohammad M., Are Firms as Liquid as they Appear in Annual Reports? (May 13, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3845724 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3845724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
896
RANK
446,506
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies