Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cracks in the Boards: the Opportunity Cost of Governance Homogeneity

37 Pages Posted: 14 May 2021

Helene Maghin

KU Leuven - Department of Economics; SciencesPo - LIEPP - Laboratory for Interdisciplinary Evaluation of Public Policies; Université Paris VI Pierre et Marie Curie - College de France

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 09, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates whether and how company boards affect firm performance. It sheds light on decisions taken by these types of high-level managers and the importance of member variety in the board profit function. I study a regulation in France that exogenously changed boards by mandating a minimum representation of each gender for firms above a certain size threshold. I show that the gender quota constrains firms to diversify boards across a variety of individual traits such as age and nationality. New boards increase various measures of profitability by around 7%. A decomposition of all margins of adjustments indicates that the rise in profits occurs mainly through cuts in variable labor costs. Results suggest that new boards use temporary high-skilled workers to enter new markets and increase firm revenue. I identify a non-linear mapping from member characteristics to firm outcomes. I relate profits to changes in board members to infer switchers’ ability and separately quantify the relevance of member variety. I find that ability explains around 35% of the profit variance but that observable traits matter at the margin. I tie back the substantial gains from the regulation to the diversification of individual traits which are complementary inputs in boards. 

Keywords: Governance, Firm performance, Industrial organisation

JEL Classification: L1, L2, M1

Suggested Citation:

Maghin, Helene, Cracks in the Boards: the Opportunity Cost of Governance Homogeneity (June 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3845675 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3845675
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
K R Ahern , A K Dittmar
The Changing of the Boards: The Impact on Firm Valuation of Mandated Female Board Representation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A.-F Bender , R Dang , M.-J Scotto
Les profils des femmes membres des conseils d'administration en France
Travail Posted: 2016
Crossref
M Bennedsen , F Pérez-González , D Wolfenzon
Do CEOs Matter? Evidence from Hospitalization Events
Journal of Finance , volume 75 , p. 1877 - 1911 Posted: 2020
Crossref
M Bertrand , S E Black , S Jensen , A Lleras-Muney
Breaking the Glass Ceiling? The Effect of Board Quotas on Female Labour Market Outcomes in Norway
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 86 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,224
RANK
253,593
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies