Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asymmetry in Earnings Management Surrounding Targeted Ratings

62 Pages Posted: 18 May 2021

Evan Eastman

Florida State University

David L. Eckles

University of Georgia - Department of Insurance, Legal Studies, Real Estate

Martin Halek

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Actuarial Science, Risk Management and Insurance

Date Written: May 15, 2021

Abstract

This study examines earnings management among financial institutions attempting to achieve a target financial strength rating. We find empirical evidence that firms with an actual rating below their target rating use income-increasing earnings management, however we find no evidence that firms above their target rating manage earnings. Our result is consistent with financial institutions facing less pressure from unions and suppliers, but more pressure from regulators, relative to non-financial institutions. Our findings are robust to a variety of alternative definitions of target rating. Notably, we examine a subset of firms with an exogenously determined target rating and find consistent results. We also find evidence that firms can influence ratings agencies, as firms that underestimate their initial claims are more likely to receive a rating upgrade.

Keywords: Accounting Discretion, Ratings Agencies, Accruals, Earnings Management, Insurance, Reserve Management

JEL Classification: G22, G24, M41

Suggested Citation:

Eastman, Evan and Eckles, David L. and Halek, Martin, Asymmetry in Earnings Management Surrounding Targeted Ratings (May 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3846968 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3846968
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
Crossref
T A Aiuppa , J S Trieschmann
An empirical analysis of the magnitude and accuracy of incurred-but-not-reported reserves
Journal of Risk and Insurance , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 100 - 118 Posted: 1987
Crossref
W Alissa , S B Bonsall , K Iv , M W Koharki , Penn
Firms' use of accounting discretion to influence their credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , issue 2 , p. 129 - 147 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A M Best
Best's credit rating methodology: Global life and non-life insurance edition Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,084
RANK
524,565
2 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies