Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Good Corporate Governance Mechanism on Earnings Management in Lq-45 Companies

Contemporary Economics (2020), Vol. 14 No. 4, pp. 545-554

10 Pages Posted: 18 May 2021

Aprillya Vernanda Putri

Airlangga University - Department of Accounting

Khusnul Prasetyo

Airlangga University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 22, 2020

Abstract

This study aims to determine the effect of good corporate governance mechanisms consisting of board size. the board of directors, the independence of the board of commissioners, the size of the audit committee, the expertise of the audit committee and the type of auditor on earnings management in companies indexed by LQ-45 for the 2016-2018 period. This study uses multiple linear regression analysis techniques. The results of the analysis in this study indicate that the expertise of the audit committee is able to reduce the level of earnings management in the company. However, this research is unsuccessful in showing that the size of the board of directors, the independence of the board of commissioners, the size of the audit committee and the type of auditor are able to influence earnings management. These results imply the importance of an expert audit committee to be able to improve the quality of financial reporting, which is indicated by low earnings management.

Keywords: Good corporate governance, earnings management, company LQ-45

JEL Classification: H83, O16, M42

Suggested Citation:

Putri, Aprillya Vernanda and Prasetyo, Khusnul, The Effect of Good Corporate Governance Mechanism on Earnings Management in Lq-45 Companies (December 22, 2020). Contemporary Economics (2020), Vol. 14 No. 4, pp. 545-554, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3846777
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
W E A Abdul , W Z N A Majid , I Harymawan , D Agustia
Characteristics of auditors' non-audit services and accruals quality in Malaysia
PacificAccounting Review Posted: 2020
Crossref
D Agustia , N P A Muhammad , Y Permatasari
Earnings management, business strategy, and bankruptcy risk: evidence from Indonesia
Heliyon , volume 6 , issue 2 Posted: 2020
Crossref
D Agustia , B Prasetyo , Y Permatasari
Do earnings management and institutional ownership affect stock market liquidity?
Opcion , volume 35 , issue SpecialEdition24 , p. 1227 - 1239 Posted: 2019
B T Albersmann , D Hohenfels
Audit committees and earnings management -Evidence from the German two-tier board system
Schmalenbach Business Review , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 147 - 178 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
233
ABSTRACT VIEWS
773
RANK
299,785
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies