Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Trade-Off between Mandatory and Voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from Oil Companies’ Risk Reporting

Working Paper

57 Pages Posted: 18 May 2021

Claudia Arena

Federico II University - Department of Economics, Management, Institutions

Saverio Bozzolan

Luiss Guido Carli University - Department of Business and Management

Claudia Imperatore

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 25, 2021

Abstract

Theoretical propositions suggest that mandatory and voluntary disclosures are related. Empirical studies focusing on this relationship provide mixed evidence as they found that mandatory and voluntary disclosure are either complements or substitutes. Relying on a proprietary, hand-collected database about the risk disclosure of oil companies, we find that voluntary risk disclosure increases with the level of mandatory risk disclosure up to a threshold above which companies reduce their voluntary disclosures. We also find that this relationship depends on the firm-level uncertainty, and it is sharpened in presence of high exposure to liquidity risk. Overall, our results contribute to the debate on whether and on which level disclosure should be regulated.

Keywords: disclosure choice, mandatory and voluntary disclosure, IFRS 7, risk reporting

JEL Classification: M41, G14

Suggested Citation:

Arena, Claudia and Bozzolan, Saverio and Imperatore, Claudia, The Trade-Off between Mandatory and Voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from Oil Companies’ Risk Reporting (February 25, 2021). Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3846335 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3846335
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
B Blanco , J M García Lara , J Tribó , T Elshandidy , I Fraser , K Hussainey
What drives mandatory and voluntary risk reporting variations across Germany
The British Accounting Review , volume 47 , p. 376 - 394 Posted: 2014
H Elzahar , K Hussainey
Determinants of narrative risk disclosures in UK interim reports
The Journal of Risk Finance , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 133 - 147 Posted: 2012
Crossref
L L Eng , Y T Mak
Corporate governance and voluntary disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 325 - 345 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Francis , D Nanda , P Olsson
Voluntary disclosure, earnings quality, and cost of capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 99 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Yusuf GALİP , Nilgün KUTAY
RİSKE YÖNELİK MUHASEBE VE FİNANSAL RAPORLAMA STANDARTLARI AÇIKLAMALARI: BORSA İSTANBUL (BIST) İMALAT SEKTÖRÜNE İLİŞKİN İÇERİK ANALİZİ
Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 619 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Mao-Wei Hung , Ken Pang-Yu Wang , Ju-Fang Yen
Say More or Less? On Mandatory Nonfinancial Disclosures and Voluntary Financial Disclosures
JCAE-D-24-177 · 60 Pages · Posted: 9 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 77
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
833
RANK
349,044
2 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies