Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perceived Trust and Corporate Litigation: The Role of Corporate Social Responsibility

58 Pages Posted: 18 May 2021

Rahman Khokhar

Saint Mary's University, Canada - Department of Finance, Information Systems & Management Science

Hesam Shahriari

Prairie View A&M University

Date Written: May 15, 2021

Abstract

We document that firms increase their investment in ESG activities, a proxy for CSR performance, in anticipation of lawsuits from external stakeholders to mitigate the adverse consequences of such legal externalities. We find that higher CSR performance is also positively related to the litigation count and propensity for class-action lawsuits. We show that this strategy to enhance CSR performance prior to anticipated litigation pays off in multiple ways, including a smaller negative wealth effect, shorter litigation process, and lower likelihood of class-action grants or monetary penalties against the defendant firm. The findings are robust to alternative measures of CSR performance, industry factors, and endogeneity concerns. Moreover, firms seem to boost their CSR performance even further after a rise in lawsuit activity. The evidence suggests that CSR performance is an additional risk mitigation tool – or an on-demand insurance policy – against anticipated lawsuits.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, CSR Performance, Litigation Risk, Civil Lawsuits

JEL Classification: G32, K15, K22, M14

Suggested Citation:

Khokhar, Abdul Rahman and Shahriari, Hesam, Perceived Trust and Corporate Litigation: The Role of Corporate Social Responsibility (May 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3847020 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3847020
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
889
RANK
375,436
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies