Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
All Losses Are Not Alike: Real versus Accounting-Driven Reported Losses

NYU Stern School of Business Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 19 May 2021 Last revised: 26 May 2021

Feng Gu

State University of New York at Buffalo

Baruch Lev

New York University - Stern School of Business

Chenqi Zhu

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

Date Written: May 16, 2021

Abstract

We examine the value relevance of accounting-driven losses that result from the immediate expensing of firms’ internally-generated intangible investments vs. losses occurring irrespective of intangible investments. Contrary to the long-held view that losses are irrelevant for valuation, we find that once the accounting bias of intangibles-expensing is undone, earnings of firms reporting intangibles-related losses are as informative as earnings of profitable firms. Contrary to the view that persistent losses decrease earnings relevance, our evidence shows no decrease in the relevance of earnings for firms reporting persistent intangibles-related losses. We also find that firms reporting intangibles-related losses outperform other loss firms and even profitable firms in value creation from technological innovation and human capital. Our evidence further shows that firms reporting intangibles-related losses have stronger future performance than other firms. Taken together, the results of this study demonstrate the fundamental differences between losses driven by the immediate expensing of internally-generated intangible investments and losses reflecting genuine business performance shortfalls. Standard accounting reports, however, do not properly reflect these differences and their implications.

Keywords: Earnings, Losses, Intangibles

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Feng and Lev, Baruch Itamar and Zhu, Chenqi, All Losses Are Not Alike: Real versus Accounting-Driven Reported Losses (May 16, 2021). NYU Stern School of Business Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3847359 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3847359
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
D Burgstahler , I Dichev
Earnings, Adaptation and Equity Value
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 2 , p. 187 - 215 Posted: 1997
M Ciftci , M Darrough
What Explains the Valuation Difference between Intangiblesintensive Profit and Loss Firms?
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 138 - 166 Posted: 2015
D Collins , E Maydew , I Weiss
Changes in the Value-relevance of Earnings and Book Values over the Past Forty Years
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 39 - 67 Posted: 1997
D Collins , M Pincus , H Xie
Equity Valuation and Negative Earnings: The Role of Book Value of Equity
The Accounting Review , volume 74 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 61 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,648
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,506
RANK
25,159
12 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies