Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Chinese Investors Underact to Goodwill

35 Pages Posted: 19 May 2021

Yongqing Li

Quanzhou Normal University - Tan Siu Lin Business School

Date Written: March 17, 2021

Abstract

This paper mainly studies goodwill as an intangible asset, and considers that goodwill and sales contain information about enterprise value. The results show that goodwill can predict the future return rate of China's stock market, indicating that investors in China’s stock market underact to information contained in goodwill. In addition, this paper also finds that the organizational structure of the company not only affects the merger behavior of the company, but also affects the predictability of the company's future stock returns. Specifically, in China, goodwill can only predict the future stock returns of non-state-owned enterprises, but not the future stock returns of state-owned enterprises. The difference is not due to the size of the company.

Keywords: Goodwill, Cross-sectional Stock Return Predictability, China’s Market, State-owned Enterprises

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Li, Yongqing, Do Chinese Investors Underact to Goodwill (March 17, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3847088 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3847088
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
759
RANK
658,366
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies