Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of the Structure of Businesses in Kosovo in Terms of Their Size and the Need for Accounting Information

Analysis of the Structure of Businesses in Kosovo in Terms of Their Size and the Need for Accounting Information, Middle Eastern Finance and Economics, ISSN 1450-2889, Issue 14, pp 54-59, June 2011

Posted: 19 May 2021

Nexhmije Berisha

University of Prishtina

Date Written: June 01, 2011

Abstract

Taking into consideration the level of economic and social development in which we are and the need for further development and integration of economic and social development, the main focus of further developments should be to raise the quality of economic business. In terms of international cooperation, Kosovo businesses should have a new approach towards the internationalization of our entrepreneurship and the creation of numerous economic relations and trade.

Based on the current level of economic development, should be created in primarily infrastructure and business environment, to produce real information to raise the level of reliability and attractiveness of our country in international level. Therefore the right and realistic information is the starting point for overall economic development, because helps the right decision making on investments in businesses that are being made and will become in the future.


Suggested Citation:

Berisha, Nexhmije, Analysis of the Structure of Businesses in Kosovo in Terms of Their Size and the Need for Accounting Information (June 01, 2011). Analysis of the Structure of Businesses in Kosovo in Terms of Their Size and the Need for Accounting Information, Middle Eastern Finance and Economics, ISSN 1450-2889, Issue 14, pp 54-59, June 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3847384
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
302
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies