Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategy Typology and Cost Structure: A Textual Analysis Approach

Fox School of Business Research Paper Forthcoming

65 Pages Posted: 18 May 2021 Last revised: 21 Mar 2022

Rajiv D. Banker

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Rong Huang

Fudan University - School of Management

Xiaorong Li

Antai College of Economics and Management, Shanghai Jiaotong University

Yan Yan

CUNY Queens College

Date Written: May 17, 2021

Abstract

In this study, we follow the strategy typology proposed by Treacy and Wiersema (1995) and develop a textual measure of firms’ generic strategy along three dimensions: product leadership, customer intimacy, and operational excellence. Product-leadership firms emphasize innovation and confront high congestion risk caused by rapid growth. We hypothesize that these firms adopt a more rigid cost structure with higher fixed and lower variable costs to promote innovation and reduce congestion risk. Consistent with our prediction, we find that product-leadership firms exhibit higher cost rigidity than customer-intimacy and operational-excellence firms. This finding is robust to using a difference-in-difference approach based on a quasi-natural shock caused by the adoption of the Inevitable Disclosure Doctrine. Furthermore, we find that the effects of the three strategies on cost structure are intensified by R&D investment, customer concentration, and asset utilization, respectively. Collectively, our findings suggest that organizational strategy has a significant impact on firms’ resource commitments and capacity choices.

Keywords: Product-leadership strategy, customer-intimacy strategy, operational-excellent strategy, textual analysis, cost structure, cost rigidity

JEL Classification: L21, L22, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Banker, Rajiv D. and Huang, Rong and Li, Xiaorong and Yan, Yan, Strategy Typology and Cost Structure: A Textual Analysis Approach (May 17, 2021). Fox School of Business Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3847856 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3847856
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
670
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,156
RANK
89,487
2 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies