Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Procedural Fairness of Objective and Subjective Performance Evaluations: Exploring the Combined Effects of Uncertainty and Trust

Forthcoming in Comptabilité Contrôle Audit – Accounting Auditing Control, 27/2 2021 May 2021

30 Pages Posted: 23 May 2021 Last revised: 25 May 2021

Pascal Langevin

EM Lyon (Ecole de Management de Lyon)

Carla Mendoza

ESCP Europe

Date Written: May 18, 2021

Abstract

Empirical research on the costs and benefits of subjective compared to objective performance evaluations has produced results that remain mixed. To shed light on this debate, we examine the effects of these two types of evaluation on managers’ perceived procedural fairness in different contexts combining uncertainty and trust. The purpose is, on the one hand, to identify whether one type of evaluation is perceived as fairer than the other in certain contexts and, on the other hand, to explore how these fairness judgments are formed. To address these two questions, we analyze quantitative and qualitative data collected from 418 managers with a scenario-based questionnaire. Our results show that subjective evaluations are perceived as fairer than objective ones by managers who are faced with situations of high uncertainty and who trust their superior. Conversely, objective evaluations are perceived as fairer in situations where both trust and uncertainty are low. Our results also show that managers form their fairness judgments by considering two dimensions: they perceive that subjective evaluations give them the opportunity to express their point of view, and that objective evaluations are more accurate and less biased. Overall, these results suggest that organizations can improve their performance evaluation systems, either by using criteria appropriate to the context or by acting on uncertainty and/ or trust.

Keywords: Subjectivity, Objectivity, Procedural fairness, Uncertainty, Trust

JEL Classification: M

Suggested Citation:

Langevin, Pascal and Mendoza, Carla, Procedural Fairness of Objective and Subjective Performance Evaluations: Exploring the Combined Effects of Uncertainty and Trust (May 18, 2021). Forthcoming in Comptabilité Contrôle Audit – Accounting Auditing Control, 27/2 2021 May 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848621
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,256
RANK
475,518
119 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies