Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Asymmetric Effect of Warranty Payments on Firm Value: The Moderating Role of Advertising, R&D, and Industry Concentration

International Journal of Research in Marketing, Vol. 38 (4), pp. 817-837, 2021

78 Pages Posted: 18 May 2021 Last revised: 27 Jan 2022

Didem Kurt

Northeastern University (USA) - Marketing Area

Koen Pauwels

Northeastern University (USA) - D’Amore-McKim School of Business

Ahmet C. Kurt

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Shuba Srinivasan

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Date Written: May 17, 2021

Abstract

Changes in firms’ warranty payments are informative signals that enable investors to form timely expectations about potential changes in product quality. The authors’ survey shows that warranty payments affect potential investors’ product quality assessments and stock investment likelihood. Their quantitative analysis reveals an asymmetric stock market reaction: unanticipated increases in warranty payments (which signal quality “losses”) lower stock returns but unanticipated decreases do not affect stock returns. Two important factors moderate this relationship. First, boosting advertising spending attenuates the negative stock return effect of unanticipated increases in warranty payments. Second, unanticipated decreases in warranty payments, which signal quality “gains”, translate into higher stock returns when the industry has become less concentrated. Interestingly, changes in R&D spending do not moderate investors’ response to unanticipated increases or decreases in warranty payments. The authors advise firms to use advertising to lessen the harm from warranty payment increases and to strongly communicate warranty payment decreases in the face of intensified competition. The authors also caution that offering warranties in general does not ensure greater firm value as declining quality firms that myopically offer warranty programs experience lower firm value than those that do not provide warranties.

Keywords: Product warranty, product quality, marketing signals, firm value, marketing-finance interface

JEL Classification: M31

Suggested Citation:

Kurt, Didem and Pauwels, Koen and Kurt, Ahmet C. and Srinivasan, Shuba, The Asymmetric Effect of Warranty Payments on Firm Value: The Moderating Role of Advertising, R&D, and Industry Concentration (May 17, 2021). International Journal of Research in Marketing, Vol. 38 (4), pp. 817-837, 2021 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848020
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
109 References
D A Aaker , R Jacobson
The financial information content of perceived quality
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 191 - 201 Posted: 1994
J Agrawal , P S Richardson , P E Grimm
The relationship between warranty and product reliability
Journal of Consumer Affairs , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 421 - 443 Posted: 1996
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple regression: Testing and interpreting interactions Posted: 1991
G A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,764
RANK
534,717
109 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies