Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Ounce of Prevention is Worth a Pound of Cure: US Cues for a Revision of the EU Market Abuse Regulation

University of Luxembourg Law Working Paper No. 2021-006

28 Pages Posted: 19 May 2021 Last revised: 20 Sep 2021

Maria Lucia Passador

Bocconi University - Department of Law; Stanford University - Transatlantic Technology Law Forum (TTLF) Fellow; European Banking Institute; Harvard University - Harvard Law School

Date Written: March 17, 2020

Abstract

This short article addresses a recent case involving a U.S. Senator at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic that has attracted widespread legal and media attention overseas.

Although overseas the regulation of so-called congressional insider trading is far more advanced than in Europe, it is high time that also in the old continent the issue of insider trading by prominent politicians is now addressed. The pandemic, and therefore the fact that some people can earn money on the stock market thanks to information acquired in the performance of their duties while their own constituents are being affected by the virus, undoubtedly raises the issue to a very high level of concern and priority, but the time is certainly now ripe for the regulation on market abuse to cover this aspect also in the Old Continent. And the current review of this framework could indeed be the right time to do so.

Even if the anti-money laundering regulation paves the way for a regulatory distinction with regard to politically exposed persons, it certainly seems necessary to arrange for more far-reaching and resolute interventions: a shift in an ethical direction or, perhaps, a return to the roots in the field of financial markets.

Keywords: securities regulation, insider trading, congressional insider trading, Rule 10b-5, short-swing profits rule, Section 16, Regulation Fair Disclosure, STOCK Act, pandemic trade, COVID-19, coronavirus, congress

JEL Classification: K00, K10, K20, K22, D82

Suggested Citation:

Passador, Maria Lucia, An Ounce of Prevention is Worth a Pound of Cure: US Cues for a Revision of the EU Market Abuse Regulation (March 17, 2020). University of Luxembourg Law Working Paper No. 2021-006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848835 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3848835
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Chin Andrew
Accurate calculation of short-swing profits under section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Posted: 1997
J Del , L Corp
Gevurtz Franklin , A , J L Univ , Pol
The Road Not Taken: A Comparison of the E.U. and U.S. Insider Trading Prohibitions' Posted: 2018
Hilary Harp
Outsider Trading After Dirks v. SEC' Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
934
RANK
534,717
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bocconi University Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies