Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Attitudes towards Non-compliance and the Demand for External Finance

Attitudes towards Non-compliance and the Demand for External Finance. 2019. Davidson, R., and C. Pirinsky. The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 2: 967-991

Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Robert H. Davidson

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: April 2, 2019

Abstract

We study the link between the individual propensity to violate moral principles and the
demand for finance based on two data sets: the World Values Survey and a data set with the
legal records of U.S. chief executive officers (CEOs).We find that individuals who are more
tolerant of moral principle violations are more likely to borrow. Corporate executives with
legal records are also associated with larger mortgages. Reverse causality and attitudes
toward risk are unlikely explanations for our findings. We contend that noncompliance
relaxes participation constraints in capital markets by lowering the psychological costs of
entering and breaking a contract.

Keywords: compliance, external financing, borrowing

JEL Classification: G02, G21, K42

Suggested Citation:

Davidson, Robert H., Attitudes towards Non-compliance and the Demand for External Finance (April 2, 2019). Attitudes towards Non-compliance and the Demand for External Finance. 2019. Davidson, R., and C. Pirinsky. The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 2: 967-991, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848769
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
284
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies