Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance of Financial Institutions in Batticaloa District

Delima, V. J. (2017). CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS IN BATTICALOA DISTRICT.

14 Pages Posted: 25 May 2021

V. J. Delima

Trincomalee Campus, Eastern University, Sri Lanka

Date Written: May 20, 2017

Abstract

Corporate governance is wide range of practices which are affected the way of directing the organization. This is an emerging concept which is considered as an important suggestion for growth of companies in recent years. Meanwhile this concept has admired more attention and several analyses were taken place in recent past decades. Such analyses have found that Corporate Governance helps to make efforts to survive from major financial failures which were caused to the organizations. Good corporate governance practices have the impact of improving satisfaction level of stakeholders and enhancement of organization. This research paper investigates corporate governance of financial institutions in Batticaloa district. Factor analysis was employed to ensure the variables and as per analysis, variables were categorized into 4 factors such as board size, corporate governance mechanism, communication strategies, and code of conduct. Questionnaire was used to collect data for this study. 125 management respondents were selected for this study and simple random sampling method was used. Findings show that there is high level corporate governance among financial institutions in Batticaloa district. These findings would be useful to consider more on Corporate Governance practices to avoid the corporate collapses in future.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Board Size, Corporate Governance Mechanism, Communication Strategies, and Code of Conduct, Sri Lanka

Suggested Citation:

Delima, Vianny Jeniston, Corporate Governance of Financial Institutions in Batticaloa District (May 20, 2017). Delima, V. J. (2017). CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS IN BATTICALOA DISTRICT., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3849802
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
R B Adams , H Mehran
Corporate performance, board structure and their determinants in the banking industry (330) Posted: 2011
A A Adekoya
Corporate governance reforms in Nigeria: challenges and suggested solution
Journal of Business System , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 38 - 50 Posted: 2012
Crossref
P P Arya , B B Tandon , A K Vashisht
Corporate Governance Posted: 2003
Crossref
A Azar , F Rad , E Botyari
Board Characteristics and Firm Performance: Malaysian Evidence
Journal of Research in Business and Management , volume 2 , issue 6 , p. 28 - 34 Posted: 2014
Load more
1 Citations
Vianny Jeniston Delima
Board Structure and Financial Performance: A Special Reference to Listed Companies in Sri Lanka
IOSR Journal of Business and Management (IOSR-JBM), Volume 23, Issue 12. Ser. I, December 2021), PP 52-62, e-ISSN: 2278-487X, p-ISSN: 2319-7668. · 11 Pages · Posted: 4 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 232
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
374
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies