Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Short Squeezes After Short-Selling Attacks

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 23 May 2021 Last revised: 25 Nov 2024

Lorien Stice-Lawrence

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Yu Ting Forester Wong

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Wuyang Zhao

McGill University - Desautels Faculty of Management

Date Written: September 13, 2024

Abstract

We estimate the prevalence and drivers of short squeezes after short-selling attacks. Positive returns after attacks have a disproportionate tendency to fully reverse and are accompanied by heightened short covering, consistent with the presence of short squeezes. We assess and find no support for non-squeeze drivers of these positive return reversals and show they are more likely to be accompanied by squeeze-related news articles, increased stock volatility, and disruptions in the stock lending market. Using positive return reversals as a proxy for short squeezes, we estimate that 15% of short attacks experience squeezes, and squeeze risk increases with short sellers’ visibility but decreases with the credibility of their evidence. Additionally, squeezes appear to be precipitated by actions of firms and investors, including insider purchases, share recalls, retail investor trading, and firm disclosures. Our findings quantify a material risk and check on activist short selling and are especially timely given recent proposed short-selling restrictions.

Keywords: short attacks, short squeezes, financial disclosure, negative information dissemination

Suggested Citation:

Stice-Lawrence, Lorien and Wong, Yu Ting Forester and Zhao, Wuyang, Short Squeezes After Short-Selling Attacks (September 13, 2024). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3849581 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3849581
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
B Ahn , R M Bushman , P N Patatoukas
Activist Fraud Campaign Disclosures: Private Information Revelation or Market Manipulation Posted: 2023
F Allen , L Litov , J Mei
Large investors, price manipulation, and limits to arbitrage: An anatomy of market corners
Review of Finance , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 645 - 693 Posted: 2006
F Allen , M Haas , E Nowak , A Tengulov
Market efficiency and limits to arbitrage: Evidence from the Volkswagen short squeeze
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2021
F Allen , M Haas , E Nowak , M Pirovano , A Tengulov
Squeezing shorts through social media platforms Posted: 2023
Load more
1 Citations
MATTHEW J. BLOOMFIELD , MIRKO S. HEINLE , OSCAR TIMMERMANS
Relative Performance Evaluation and Strategic Peer‐Harming Disclosures
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , issue 3 , p. 877 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,326
RANK
41,502
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies