Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Challenges of Oil Investing: Contango and the Financialization of Commodities

Energy Economics, Vol. 102, 2021

56 Pages Posted: 23 May 2021 Last revised: 10 Feb 2022

Ludwig B. Chincarini

University of San Francisco

Fabio Moneta

Telfer School of Management, University of Ottawa

Date Written: April 21, 2021

Abstract

The ability of oil investment vehicles to perfectly track spot oil has always been challenging; however, recently many vehicles have underperformed spot oil. We study the behavior of oil futures and exchange-traded products that invest in oil futures to document and understand the source of this tracking error. The primary reason why oil investment vehicles have underperformed spot oil is an increase in contango in oil futures markets that we find might be related to investment crowding and the financialization of commodity markets. We show that from 2006 to 2017, oil futures investing underperformed spot oil and the market was in contango most of the time. Proxies for crowding, such as the concentration of major oil investors and changes in assets under management and fund flows of major oil exchange-traded products, are associated with contango in the futures markets and the divergence between futures and spot returns. We also provide evidence of an impact of the financialization on oil futures prices.

Keywords: oil investing, crowding, futures investing, tracking error, commodities, exchange-traded funds

JEL Classification: G0,G4,G11,G14

Suggested Citation:

Chincarini, Ludwig B. and Moneta, Fabio, The Challenges of Oil Investing: Contango and the Financialization of Commodities (April 21, 2021). Energy Economics, Vol. 102, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3849464 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3849464
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
278
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,446
RANK
250,789
2 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Wealth Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies