Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Analysis of Joint Impact of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) and Corporate Governance (CG) on Firm Value

33 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2021

Ananth Rao

University of Dubai

Date Written: May 19, 2016

Abstract

This paper analyzes simultaneity and endogeneity of ERM and Corporate Governance. It assesses quantitative relationship between Corporate Governance, ERM and value of the firm. The research results provide quantitative justifications for the boards to make investments in ERM and Corporate Governance initiatives for improved shareholder wealth. 3SLS-IV system modeling was applied on 2004-11 data of Gulf Cooperation Council financial institutions. Our research confirms the simultaneity and endogeneity of Corporate Governance, ERM and Firm Value determinants. Firm value is jointly and positively impacted by ERM & Corporate Governance initiatives although the impact was less significant. Unexpectedly, ERM initiative was significantly and negatively impacted by determinants such as intangibility, and profitability. Firm size was the only determinant that showed significant and positive impact on firm value. Relative to UAE the corporate governance mechanism was active in Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Oman firms. Further, the existence of audit committees in the GCC firm’s boards and ERM adoption significantly positively impacted the corporate governance by 3.42% and 1.7239% respectively.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Enterprise Risk Management, Firm Value, Simultaneity, Endogeneity, Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) economies

JEL Classification: C15, C21, C51, D57, F30, G21, G32, G34, K22, L21, M31, M41, N25, O16

Suggested Citation:

Rao, Ananth, Empirical Analysis of Joint Impact of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) and Corporate Governance (CG) on Firm Value (May 19, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3849160 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3849160
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
G Allayannis , J Weston
The Use of Foreign Currency Derivatives and Firm Market Value
Review of Financial Studies , volume 14 , p. 243 - 276 Posted: 2001
A M Best
Best Comments on Enterprise Risk Management and Capital Models Posted: 2006
M S Beasley , R Clune , D R Hermanson
Enterprise Risk Management: An Empirical Analysis of Factors Associated with the Extent of Implementation
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 24 , p. 521 - 531 Posted: 2005
M S Beasley , D Pagach , R Warr
The Information Conveyed in Hiring Announcements of Senior Executives Overseeing Enterprise-Wide Risk Management Processes
Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance , volume 23 , p. 311 - 332 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
809
RANK
362,694
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies