Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Personnel Factors of Corporate Internal Auditing on the Contemporary Microeconomics Environment in the United States

Contemporary Economics (2021), Vol. 15 No. 2, pp. 138-152

15 Pages Posted: 24 May 2021

Victor W Gaines

Pacific Union College

Karina Kasztelnik

Grand Canyon University

Date Written: April 23, 2021

Abstract

The purpose of this quantitative, correlational research was to examine to what extent the personnel factors of internal auditing departments predict the control environment within the public sector. Using the 2013 COSO Internal Control-Integrated Framework as the theoretical framework, we addressed the extent to which the internal audit staffing size per engagement, professional development, and auditing experience of auditors predict the overall control environment and each of the five components of COSO. The results of six multiple linear regression models showed no statistically significant with the exception between professional development and Principle 4 - Recruitment. A nonparametric Kendall’s tau-b correlation analysis revealed a significant relationship between professional development and Principle 4 Recruitment, τb = 0.388, p = 0.030. The results of this study may contribute to the positive global economy change by bringing into focus the role of auditing and its positive impact on the worldwide public auditing policy.

Keywords: COSO, Government Auditing, Governance, Internal Auditing, Personnel Factors, Control Environment

JEL Classification: H83, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gaines, Victor W and Kasztelnik, Karina, Personnel Factors of Corporate Internal Auditing on the Contemporary Microeconomics Environment in the United States (April 23, 2021). Contemporary Economics (2021), Vol. 15 No. 2, pp. 138-152, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3850573
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
297
RANK
812,529
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies