Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between Corporate Social Responsibility and Brand Equity within the Business-to-Business Service Sector

105 Pages Posted: 26 May 2021

Madeline Smith

Independent

Date Written: April 9, 2021

Abstract

This research study explored the relationship between corporate social responsibility (CSR) and brand equity, within business-to-business (B2B) group health insurance service firms. Since its inception as a business concept, CSR has been thought of as an exercise in being a good corporate citizen, but traditionalist views have suggested it opposes the revenue-centric focus of business ventures. There is a large body of existing literature that examines corporate social responsibility, or brand equity, or both but in the product or goods sector, or within business-to-consumer models. This research sought to close gaps in the existing research by analyzing the seminal research on CSR and brand equity, focused on B2B service firms, using primary research. A quantitative, non-experimental survey method was used with 59 qualified respondents who had purchased group health services from a B2B service provider such as a Third Party Administrator, Agent/Broker, or Pharmacy Benefit Manager. Survey respondents were screened for decision-making authority and experience in order to participate in the survey. Data analysis showed that there is a positive relationship between CSR and brand equity. It also showed that economic and ethical responsibility were the CSR initiatives which had the most impact on brand equity, and brand loyalty was the dimension of brand equity that was most impacted by CSR. Each of the findings was statistically significant, all with p < .001. Identifying CSR, specifically economic and ethical responsibility, as having the potential to increase brand equity, especially brand loyalty, may be valuable for B2B service firms and their marketing teams, who are focused on marketing efforts that will yield tangible results. The research suggests that CSR initiatives may lead to increased brand equity, specifically brand loyalty and that CSR can be considered more than simply a moral imperative in today’s business environment, but also a marketing activity.

Keywords: brands, brand equity, brand equity theory, brand management, business to business (B2B) brand, B2B marketing, corporate branding, corporate marketing, service brands, B2B service, corporate social responsibility (CSR), CSR, brand equity, B2B CSR, service brands and CSR, B2B service brands and CS

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Madeline, The Relationship between Corporate Social Responsibility and Brand Equity within the Business-to-Business Service Sector (April 9, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3850480
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
D A Aaker
Managing brand equity Posted: 1991
J Ahn , M H Lee , J A Lee
Distance-based outlier detection for high dimension, low sample size data
Journal of Applied Statistics , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 13 - 29 Posted: 2019
Crossref
I M Aminu , M Shariff
Strategic Orientation, Access to Finance, Business Environment and SMEs Performance in Nigeria: Data Screening and Preliminary Analysis
European Journal of Business and Management , volume 6 , p. 124 - 131 Posted: 2014
Anees-Ur-Rehman , &amp; Muhammad , Ho Wong , &amp; Yin , Sultan , Bill Merrilees
Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
604
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,778
RANK
102,553
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies