Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Corporate Culture Impact Tax Behavior: Machine Learning Approach

46 Pages Posted: 24 May 2021

Samuel B. Bonsall

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting

Babak Mammadov

Clemson University - School of Accountancy & Legal Studies

Hamid Vakilzadeh

University of Wisconsin - Whitewater - College of Business and Economics

Date Written: May 21, 2021

Abstract

This study investigates whether corporate culture of a firm impacts its tax shelter behavior. We use novel machine learning methodology to measure corporate culture of a firm. The analyses show that firms with stronger corporate culture are more likely to engage in tax shelter behavior and extent of such behavior is greater in these firms. The findings also suggest that firms with stronger corporate culture engage in greater tax avoidance, which is a less controversial corporate behavior compared to tax shelter activities. The results continue to hold when we implement battery of tests to address endogeneity issues (e.g., two-stage least squares methodology and difference-in-difference analysis). Finally, we determine that engaging in tax shelter behavior as a result of stronger corporate culture increases a firm’s after-tax earnings in future periods.

Keywords: corporate culture, tax avoidance, tax shelter, tax haven

JEL Classification: M41, M49, G3

Suggested Citation:

Bonsall, Samuel B. and Mammadov, Babak and Vakilzadeh, Hamid, Does Corporate Culture Impact Tax Behavior: Machine Learning Approach (May 21, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3850478 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3850478
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
INTERNATIONAL TAXATION: Large U.S Corporations and Federal Contractors with Subsidiaries Listed as Tax Havens or Financial Privacy Jurisdictions , volume 18 Posted: 2008
J R Graham , J Grennan , C R Harvey , S Rajgopal
Corporate culture: The interview evidence Posted: 2018
J R Graham , C R Harvey , J Popadak , S Rajgopal
Corporate culture: Evidence from the field (No. w23255)
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 2017
Crossref
L Guiso , P Sapienza , L Zingales
The value of corporate culture
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 76 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
553
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,694
RANK
114,831
2 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies