Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Stress Test Disclosures, Private Information Production, and Price Informativeness

50 Pages Posted: 24 May 2021 Last revised: 8 Jun 2023

Amanda Heitz

A.B. Freeman School of Business Tulane University

Barrett Wheeler

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 7, 2023

Abstract

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, from 2015-2017, banks holding assets between $10 - $50 billion
were required to disclose a portion of their company-run stress test results. These disclosures were
intended to facilitate market discipline and bank monitoring. In contrast, we find that these disclosures are associated with a decrease in the relative amount of firm-specific information in bank stock prices and a contemporaneous decline in analyst following. Inconsistent with the intended objective of increased market monitoring, our results are instead consistent with recent theory models suggesting that increased regulatory disclosures may discourage private information production.

Keywords: Stress test, disclosure, market efficiency

JEL Classification: G14, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Heitz, Amanda and Wheeler, Barrett, Bank Stress Test Disclosures, Private Information Production, and Price Informativeness (June 7, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3850954 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3850954
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
V V Acharya , H Mehran , A V Thakor
Caught between Scylla and Charybdis? Regulating bank leverage when there is rent seeking and risk shifting
The Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 5 , p. 36 - 75 Posted: 2016
G Afonso , A Kovner , A Schoar
Stressed, not frozen: The federal funds market in the financial crisis
The Journal of Finance , volume 66 , p. 1109 - 1139 Posted: 2011
S Agarwal , X An , L Cordell , R A Roman
Bank Stress Test Results and Their Impact on Consumer Credit Markets Posted: 2020
D Altschuler , G Chen , J Zhou
Anticipation of management forecasts and analystsâ private information search
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , p. 803 - 838 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
265
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,330
RANK
263,404
3 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies