Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Corporate Citizenship

Camilleri, M.A. (2015). Global Corporate Citizenship, In Idowu, S.O., Capaldi, N., Fifka, M., Zu, L., Schmidpeter, R. (Eds.) Dictionary of Corporate Social Responsibility, CSR, Sustainability, Ethics and Governance, Springer International Publishing. https://www.springer.com/gp/book/9783319105352

2 Pages Posted: 27 May 2021

Mark Anthony Camilleri

University of Malta

Date Written: January 1, 2015

Abstract

In 2002, thirty-four chief executives of the world’s largest multinational corporations signed a document during the World Economic Forum (WEF) entitled, ‘Global Corporate Citizenship: The Leadership Challenge for CEOs and Boards’. These included Coca-Cola, Deutsche Bank, Diageo, Merck & Co., McDonald's Corporation, Philips, and UBS. The WEF had recognized that the notion of corporate citizenship was a business response towards society. The forum urged businesses to engage themselves in social investment, philanthropic programmes and public policy [1]. The WEF believes that corporate global citizenship is fundamentally in the enlightened self-interest of global corporations since their growth, prosperity and sustainability is dependent on the state of the global political, economic, environmental and social landscape [2].GCET’s principles recognize the important dimension and role of tourism as a positive instrument towards the alleviation of poverty and for the improvement in the quality of life of all people. It outlined the principles to guide tourism development and to serve as a frame of reference for different stakeholders in the tourism sector.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, CSR, Global Corporate Citizenship, Corporate Citizenship, WEF

JEL Classification: M1, M10, M12, M13, M14, M16, M31

Suggested Citation:

Camilleri, Mark, Global Corporate Citizenship (January 1, 2015). Camilleri, M.A. (2015). Global Corporate Citizenship, In Idowu, S.O., Capaldi, N., Fifka, M., Zu, L., Schmidpeter, R. (Eds.) Dictionary of Corporate Social Responsibility, CSR, Sustainability, Ethics and Governance, Springer International Publishing. https://www.springer.com/gp/book/9783319105352, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3850884 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3850884
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
M A Camilleri
Creating shared value through strategic CSR in tourism Posted: 2012-07
D Matten , A Crane
Corporate citizenship: Toward an extended theoretical conceptualization , volume 30 , p. 166 - 179 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
793
RANK
672,649
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies