Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rhetorical Big Baths Following CEO Turnovers

No.

No.

73 Pages Posted: 24 May 2021 Last revised: 21 Jul 2025

Wolfgang Breuer

RWTH Aachen University

Marcos Andrés Follonier

RWTH Aachen University - Department of Finance

Andreas Knetsch

Leibniz Institute for Financial Research SAFE; RWTH Aachen University

Date Written: July 21, 2025

Abstract

This paper sheds light on the open issue as to whether incoming CEOs’ income-reducing accounting decisions misrepresent firm performance and serve the purpose of setting a low benchmark for the incoming CEO’s tenure by blaming her or his predecessor for poor performance. Investigating the textual tone in earnings press releases (EPRs) in the years surrounding CEO turnovers, we find that incoming CEOs use negative tone to an extent that cannot be explained by current firm performance or proxies for expected future performance. We confirm this result for past- or present-oriented language after controlling for tone in forward-oriented EPR statements. This rules out that our results are due to incoming CEOs conveying relevant information about the firm’s future situation that is not contained in financial figures. Moreover, the phenomenon of “rhetorical big baths” is more common to forced turnovers, when the incoming CEO is overconfident, or among turnovers, where the incoming CEO takes a big bath by means of discretionary accruals or write-downs. All in all, our results document opportunistic behavior consistent with the hypothesis that incoming CEOs strategically try to bias the perception of market participants about their firm’s situation downwards. 

Keywords: CEO turnover, big bath, textual analysis JEL codes: G30, M41

JEL Classification: G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Breuer, Wolfgang and Follonier, Marcos Andrés and Knetsch, Andreas, Rhetorical Big Baths Following CEO Turnovers (July 21, 2025). No., No., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3850079 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3850079
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
K Allee , M D Deangelis
The structure of voluntary disclosure narratives: Evidence from tone dispersion
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 274 Posted: 2015
Ö Arslan-Ayaydin , N Bishara , J Thewissen , W Torsin
Managerial career concerns and the content of corporate disclosures: An analysis of the tone of earnings press releases
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 72 Posted: 2020
Ö Arslan-Ayaydin , K Boudt , J Thewissen
Managers set the tone: Equity incentives and the tone of earnings press releases
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 72 , p. 132 - 147 Posted: 2016
V Arunachalam , B K W Pei , ; P J Steinbart
Impression management with graphs: Effects on choices
Journal of Information Systems , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 183 - 202 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
379
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,401
RANK
179,159
4 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies