Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between Ownership Concentration and Earnings Management (Evidence from Mongolian Listed Firms)

5 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2021

Narantsetseg Amarsanaa

Mandakh University

Undral Undral

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Odgarav Tserenchimed

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: Januare 15, 2020

Abstract

Research purpose is to investigate the relationship between ownership concentration and earnings management in Mongolian listed firms in 2012-2018. During soviet era, Mongolia’s economy was predominated by state-controlled, wide-spread inefficiencies, which reduced investor confidence. Transition to market economy brought several types of ownership in companies. Therefore, the study focuses on ownership concentration. The ownership is measured by percentage of shareholder's shares. Proxy of earnings management is defined by discretionary accruals. A total of 122 Mongolian listed firms are chosen as a study sample and found that controlling ownership and earnings management have positive and significant relation.

Suggested Citation:

Amarsanaa, Narantsetseg and Erdenee, Undral and Tserenchimed, Odgarav, The Relationship between Ownership Concentration and Earnings Management (Evidence from Mongolian Listed Firms) (Januare 15, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3850842 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3850842
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
A Bhide
The Hidden Costs of Stock Market Liquidity
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 34 , p. 31 - 51 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Michael C Jensen , William H Meckling
Theory of the Firm: Managerial Behavior, Agency Costs and Ownership Structure
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 3 , p. 305 - 360 Posted: 1976
Crossref
A Shleifer , R Vishny
A Survey of Corporate Governance
Journal of Finance , volume 52 , p. 737 - 783 Posted: 1997
Crossref
A Klein
Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 375 - 401 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
482
RANK
772,295
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies