Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proxy Advisors and Market Power: A Review of Institutional Investor Robovoting

Manhattan Institute, 2021

Ohio State Legal Studies Research Paper No. 631

42 Pages Posted: 28 May 2021 Last revised: 29 Jun 2021

Paul Rose

Case Western Reserve University School of Law

Date Written: April 22, 2021

Abstract

In July 2020, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted a final Proxy Advisor Rule, establishing principles governing the conduct of proxy advisory firms, which help institutional investors execute voting on shareholder matters and advise them on how to vote their shares. The commission acted in response to growing concerns that two relatively small proxy advisory firms — Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. (ISS) and Glass, Lewis & Co. (Glass Lewis), each owned by private equity firms and together controlling more than 90% of the proxy advisory market — have assumed outsize influence over corporate voting matters. The commission’s new rule is intended to ensure that investment advisors are acting in the best interest of shareholders.

Among the issues implicated by the SEC’s Proxy Advisor Rule and concurrent Guidance Supplement is “robovoting,” whereby institutional investors mechanically follow a proxy advisor’s voting guidance without any independent review. In effect, an institutional investor transfers its fiduciary voting authority to a third party. Robovoting is a principal mechanism through which proxy advisory firms have assumed substantial influence over corporate shareholder voting outcomes.

This paper is the first empirical assessment of robovoting in 2020, which, owing to the timing of the annual corporate “proxy season,” fell wholly after the SEC announced its proxy-advisor rulemaking process in November 2019 but mostly before the SEC released its final rule in July 2020. Because institutional investors are forward-looking, we can expect that at least some of these investors adjusted shareholder voting policies and disclosures in light of the commission’s rulemaking procedure.

Nevertheless, among institutional investors that engaged in robovoting in 2020 — either wholly or as part of an apparent custom voting plan — most did not make adequate disclosures to investors of their proxy voting strategies. Some institutional investors did, however — including those that adopted a robovoting strategy during the year, consistent with the SEC’s proxy advisory rule. This report highlights those examples, which other institutional investors may wish to consider as templates for their own disclosure regimes.

Suggested Citation:

Rose, Paul, Proxy Advisors and Market Power: A Review of Institutional Investor Robovoting (April 22, 2021). Manhattan Institute, 2021, Ohio State Legal Studies Research Paper No. 631, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3851233
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
See James , R Copland , David F Larcker , Brian Tayan
Proxy Advisory Firms: Empirical Evidence and the Case for Reform
Manhattan Institute (MI) Posted: 2018-05
Exemptions from the Proxy Rules for Proxy Voting Advice, 85 FR 55082 Posted: 2020-07-03
G John , Chong Matsusaka , Shu
A Theory of Proxy Advice When Investors Have Social Goals Posted: 2020-10-26
Chong Shu
The Proxy Advisory Industry: Influencing and Being Influenced
Journal of Financial Economics, Forthcoming Pages: 48 Posted: 2 Jun 2020 Last revised: 9 Feb 2024
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
457
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,930
RANK
144,509
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University Moritz College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies