Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inflexibility, Cash, and the Cash Uptrend

Posted: 8 Jun 2021 Last revised: 13 Aug 2023

Olivia Gu

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: January 1, 2021

Abstract

Firms with higher inflexibility to adjust their scale hold more cash than flexible firms due to precautionary considerations. We develop this implication from a novel model of a firm with real options for costly adjustments and empirically confirm this relation with a regression discontinuity design that potentially mitigates endogeneity concerns. Consistent with the precautionary motive, inflexible firms spend more cash than flexible firms following the coronavirus pandemic. Marginal value of cash is also higher for inflexible firms. Furthermore, inflexible firms account for much of the well-known secular cash uptrend. Our paper sheds new lights on the determinants of corporate cash policy and highlights the role of inflexibility in corporate decisions.



Keywords: Inflexibility, Cash holding, COVID-19, Precautionary saving, Cash uptrend

JEL Classification: G31, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Olivia, Inflexibility, Cash, and the Cash Uptrend (January 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3853650
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,339
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies