Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholders, Not Politicians, Should Decide on Takeovers

Institute of Economic Affairs Monographs, Forthcoming

4 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2021

Julian Jessop

Institute of Economic Affairs (IEA)

Date Written: April 13, 2018

Abstract

The ongoing controversy over Melrose’s purchase of engineering company GKN illustrates many common misunderstandings about how free markets can work to the benefit of all. Shareholders, not politicians, should decide how to run their businesses, including whether a new management team could do better. There is only a limited set of circumstances where it might be right for the government to intervene – such as on grounds of national security, or to mitigate the risks of taxpayer bailouts. But these concerns are usually exaggerated. Some have also argued that decisions on takeovers should not be left to ‘vulture funds’ or ‘asset strippers’ who, they claim, are only looking to make a quick profit with no regard for the wider implications. This analysis is misleading (as well as the language), because one sure way to maximise shareholder value in any company is to improve its long-term performance. The interests of investors should therefore already be aligned with those of others who also want a company to thrive, including employees and customers. This alignment can be strengthened further via market mechanisms, if necessary, such as financial packages that reward managers for long-term results. This is far preferable to a more protectionist approach, where change is resisted, competitive pressures are weakened, and shareholders rights are undermined. Indeed, playing politics with companies might actually be the worst form of ‘short-termism’.

Keywords: UK, Britain, government policy, regulation, company takeover, acquisition, vulture funds, protectionism

JEL Classification: G34, L51, G38, L25, L20, L16

Suggested Citation:

Jessop, Julian, Shareholders, Not Politicians, Should Decide on Takeovers (April 13, 2018). Institute of Economic Affairs Monographs, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3853670 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3853670
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
481
RANK
880,636
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies