Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Egyptian Listed Companies Support SDGs? Evidence From UNCTAD Guidance on Core Indicators Disclosures

Corporate Governance and Sustainability Review, 5(2), 73-81, 2021, https://doi.org/10.22495/cgsrv5i2p6

9 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2021

Ahmed M. Abdel-Meguid

The American University in Cairo - School of Business

Khaled M. Dahawy

The American University in Cairo

Nermeen F. Shehata

The American University in Cairo

Date Written: May 2021

Abstract

This paper provides an exploratory analysis of the extent of Sustainable Development Goals disclosure (SDGD) by the top 30 Egyptian companies. We use the 33 core indicators of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), which span economic, institutional, social, and environmental areas. Overall, the results suggest that SDGD in Egypt is still gaining traction, as indicated by a relatively low average disclosure score of only 25%, which translates to approximately eight indicators. We also document a variation in SDGD among the four areas, where disclosure addressing economic and institutional indicators is higher than that of social and environmental areas. This variation could be attributed to the differential regulatory and legal intensity. Disclosure is most noticeable for taxes, employment, women empowerment, financial transparency, corporate governance, and energy. We argue that Egypt has the legislative infrastructure and clear political will from the state to support sustainable development. However, there is a need for coordinated awareness efforts to establish a culture of sustainable development among various stakeholders, including businesses. Finally, there should be a stronger conviction regarding the importance of information sharing as well as comprehensive reporting standards and enhanced regulatory enforcement. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first paper to address the status of SDGD in Egypt. Accordingly, there is a need for future research that analyzes both the determinants of SDGD and its consequences.

Keywords: Disclosure, Egypt, Sustainability, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Guidance on Core Indicators (GCI)

JEL Classification: M14, M41, O16

Suggested Citation:

Abdel-Meguid, Ahmed M. and Dahawy, Khaled M. and Shehata, Nermeen F., Do Egyptian Listed Companies Support SDGs? Evidence From UNCTAD Guidance on Core Indicators Disclosures (May 2021). Corporate Governance and Sustainability Review, 5(2), 73-81, 2021, https://doi.org/10.22495/cgsrv5i2p6, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3853714
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
N Agarwal , U Gneiting , R Mhlanga
Raising the bar: Rethinking the role of business in the Sustainable Development Goals (Oxfam Discussion Papers) Posted: 2017
C G Calvin , D L Street
An analysis of Dow 30 global core indicator disclosures and environmental, social, and governance-related ratings
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 323 - 349 Posted: 2020
Crossref
T Czerwińska , P Kaźmierkiewicz
ESG rating in investment risk analysis of companies listed on the public market in Poland
Finance and Monetary Economics , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 211 - 248 Posted: 2015
Crossref
I M Garcia-Sanchez , B Cuadrado-Ballesteros , C Sepulveda
Does media pressure moderate CSR disclosures by external directors? Management Decision , volume 52 , p. 1014 - 1045 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
594
RANK
531,260
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies