Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Investors Still Acknowledge Excessive Corporate Leverage? Understanding Divergence of Valuation During the Age of ZIRP and QE

28 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2021

David Galvin

Dublin City University

Shaen Corbet

Dublin City University ; University of Waikato - Management School

Charles James Larkin

Institute for Policy Research (IPR), University of Bath; Johns Hopkins University

Date Written: May 25, 2021

Abstract

Times of financial crisis generate often irregular monetary policy response. In the past decade, much focus has surrounded zero, and even, negative interest rate policies along with quantitative easing. While corporate borrowing continues to be ‘cheap,’ it is important to analyse as to whether investors have distinctly, and geographically, attributed differential valuations surrounding the use of corporate leverage? Differentiating corporate entities across six of the largest international exchanges, this research focuses on the performance of companies based on time-varying debt/equity performance, with particular emphasis on the implementation of quantitative easing. Results indicate that the average returns of the highly-leveraged firms significantly diverge during both interest rate and quantitative easing events, however, variation is found to be dependent on both the geographical distribution and concentration of leverage in the form of both debt and equity. After a thorough investigation, the results strongly suggest that positive returns are achieved by highly leveraged firms following asset purchasing programmes.

Keywords: Leverage; Monetary Policy; Quantitative Easing; Central Banks; ZIRP.

Suggested Citation:

Galvin, David and Corbet, Shaen and Larkin, Charles James, Do Investors Still Acknowledge Excessive Corporate Leverage? Understanding Divergence of Valuation During the Age of ZIRP and QE (May 25, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3853259 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3853259
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
652
RANK
747,544
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies