Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Ownership Structure Affect Firm Performance in an Emerging Market? The Case of India

B Panda, D Bag, 2019.Does Ownership Structure Affect Firm Performance in an Emerging Market The Case of India. Asian Journal of Business and Accounting,Vol. 12 No. 1 (2019): June

40 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2021

Brahmadev Panda

Independent

Dinabandhu Bag

National Institute of Technology, Rourkela - School of Management

Date Written: June 2019

Abstract

Research aim: This study aims to examine the impact of ownership structure (ownership concentration and identities) on the financial and market performance of Indian listed firms, post the US financial crisis 2008.

Design/Methodology/Approach: This study is based on a six-year financial dataset of 100 Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) listed firms, from FY 2009-10 to FY 2014-15. The study applies the static panel data model (pooled OLS, fixed effect and random effect) and the dynamic panel data model (two-step generalised method of moments) for the hypotheses testing. Research findings: This study finds that in the case of ownership concentration, large owners have no link with the financial performance. However, they have an adverse impact on the market performance. The presence of promoters, domestic institutions and foreign institutions appears to boost the financial performance, whereas the foreign institutional investment seems to enhance the market performance.

Theoretical contribution/Originality: The major contributions of this study are the two dimensions of ownership concentration (large owners) and identity (types of owners) being considered as ownership structure, the use of the dynamic panel models to check for the endogeneity issue and the post US financial crisis analysis derived from this study. All of these contribute to the impact of ownership volatility and performance variation in the context of India, thereby making this study a novel one.

Policy implications: Policymakers should consider developing more lucrative policies so as to encourage institutional investors to invest in the Indian market. This is because domestic and foreign institutional owners are central to the enhancement of both the corporate financial and market performance. Further, corporate executives should aim to prevent inefficiencies so as to safeguard the interest of large owners.

Research implications/Limitations: This study has used ownership structure as one of the essential governance mechanisms. Future research may consider other mechanisms like board structure or CEO duality.

Keywords: Ownership Structure, Performance, Panel Data, GMM, Emerging Market

Suggested Citation:

Panda, Brahmadev and Bag, D, Does Ownership Structure Affect Firm Performance in an Emerging Market? The Case of India (June 2019). B Panda, D Bag, 2019.Does Ownership Structure Affect Firm Performance in an Emerging Market The Case of India. Asian Journal of Business and Accounting,Vol. 12 No. 1 (2019): June, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3853879
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Firm performance and mechanisms to control agency problems between managers and shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Al Mubarak , M Hamdan , A
The impact of corporate governance on market capitalization: Evidence from Bahrain Bourse
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 120 - 129 Posted: 2016
Crossref
T T Y Alabdullah
The relationship between ownership structure and firm financial performance: Evidence from Jordan , volume 25 , p. 319 - 333 Posted: 2018
Crossref
M Alipour
An investigation of the association between ownership structure and corporate performance: Empirical evidence from Tehran Stock Exchange (TSE)
Management Research Review , volume 36 , issue 11 , p. 1137 - 1166 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Brahmadev Panda , D Bag
Does Ownership Structure Affect Firm Performance in an Emerging Market? The Case of India
B Panda, D Bag, 2019.Does Ownership Structure Affect Firm Performance in an Emerging Market The Case of India. Asian Journal of Business and Accounting,Vol. 12 No. 1 (2019): June · 40 Pages · Posted: 3 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 389
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
389
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,313
RANK
174,026
1 Citations
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies