Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Corporate Tax Policy Has to Do with Sustainability and How Companies Should Deal with It

World Tax Journal 2022 (Volume 14), No. 1 https://www.ibfd.org/shop/international-what-corporate-tax-policy-has-do-sustainability-and-how-companies-should-deal-it

Posted: 4 Jun 2021 Last revised: 28 Dec 2021

Alfio Valsecchi

Independent

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 27, 2021

Abstract

Taxes are acknowledged by the United Nations to play a vital role in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030, and, according to the World Economic Forum, stakeholders’ increasing interest in societal impact and greater demand for transparency are encouraging firms to go beyond simply “playing by the rules”.

Moving from this data, the article assesses what role has been played in developing the discourse about tax and sustainability by private entities (standard setters, certification bodies, advocacy groups), soft law authorities, and policy makers, focusing on the EU legislation.

On a practical level, the article tackles the topic of how a company should deal with the challenge of implementing tax policies aligned with its sustainability goals, through the analysis of the latest achievements in the matters of tax risk assessment and management, internal control system, and sustainability reporting.

Keywords: Sustainability, Tax policy, Corporate Governance, Tax Risk Management, Internal Control System, ESG Reporting Standards, Non-Financial Reporting Directive, ESG Metrics, Tax Control Framework

Suggested Citation:

Valsecchi, Alfio, What Corporate Tax Policy Has to Do with Sustainability and How Companies Should Deal with It (May 27, 2021). World Tax Journal 2022 (Volume 14), No. 1 https://www.ibfd.org/shop/international-what-corporate-tax-policy-has-do-sustainability-and-how-companies-should-deal-it, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3854974 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3854974
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,126
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies