Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bed Bath & Beyond: The New Strategy to Drive Shareholder Value

HBS Case No. 722-408 (2021)

Posted: 21 Jan 2022

Benjamin Esty

Harvard Business School

Daniel Fisher

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Date Written: December 14, 2021

Abstract

For many years, Bed Bath & Beyond (BBB) was one of the most successful specialty retailers in the United States—it’s growth and profit margins far exceeded both peer retailers in the home goods market as well as many “big box”/discount retailers. But in 2014, its stock price peaked, growth slowed, and margins began to shrink. By 2018, it was losing money and its sales were declining as online and discount retailers (e.g., Amazon, Walmart, and Wayfair) changed retailing in fundamental ways. Noting this underperformance, a group of activist investors appeared in early 2019, and tried to replace the board and the leadership team. Although they did not succeed, the company replaced five directors and appointed a new CEO named Mark Tritton in October 2019. About a year later, Tritton announced a new strategy “to unlock growth and drive significant shareholder value” using an “omni-channel” model. He also announced a new financial "roadmap” and capital allocation framework to deliver strong and sustainable shareholder returns. The question is whether Tritton's turnaround plan could save the once-venerable retailer and help it regain an advantage in the new, more competitive retail environment.

This case has three objectives. First, it analyzes the creation and subsequent loss of competitive advantage of a leading firm in the specialty retailing industry. This analysis provides a cautionary tale about the risk of not adapting to a changing competitive environment. Second, it raises a number of governance (the compensation of senior executives and the impact of activist investors), financing (payout policy and capital structure), and leadership issues (the role of founders), and challenges students to determine whether intense and evolving competition—particularly a new set of online competitors—or poor and intransigent management led to the downfall. Finally, it challenges students to assess the turnaround plan—is it going to work and what factors make it likely to succeed, or not? In short, can Tritton and his leadership team regain an advantage in the new retailing environment or is it destined for bankruptcy like so many of its retailing peers?


Keywords: Retailing, competitive advantage, turnaround plan, sustainability, value creation, activist investor, strategy formulation, ecommerce, omni-channel retailing, corporate governance, leading change, consumer products

JEL Classification: L1, L81, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Esty, Benjamin C. and Fisher, Daniel, Bed Bath & Beyond: The New Strategy to Drive Shareholder Value (December 14, 2021). HBS Case No. 722-408 (2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3854923
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,891
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies