Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Investors and Analysts Value Strategic Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosures? Evidence from China

Lu, Y. & Abeysekera, I. 2021.Do Investors and Analysts Value Strategic Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosures? Evidence from China. Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting, Vol. 32, NO. 2, pp. 147-181. https://doi.org/10.1111/jifm.12126

64 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2021

Yingjun Lu

Shanghai University of International Business and Economics

Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Ton Duc Thang University

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

This paper examines whether strategic corporate social responsibility (SCSR) disclosures are value-relevant for investors and analysts in the context of China. Using a sample of Chinese listed firms from One Belt One Road (OBOR) theme indices, we construct a rating system of SCSR disclosures including five dimensions and twenty indicators and perform a principal component analysis and a non-hierarchical cluster analysis to group sample firms. We find that the market has a positive reaction to SCSR disclosures but the market fails to perceive whether such disclosures are credible. We also find that the number of analysts following a firm is positively associated with its SCSR disclosures and the positive association between SCSR disclosures and analysts following is less pronounced for firms with lower credibility. Additional analyses demonstrate that the higher SCSR disclosure quality the more positive market reaction, and that the higher SCSR disclosure quality the more numbers of analysts following but this positive association between disclosure quality and analysts following is discounted by a firm’s lower credibility. Additional analyses further confirm that the SCSR disclosure mandate has a negative moderating effect on investors’ and analysts’ positive reactions to SCSR disclosures. We do not find convincing evidence that the ownership of foreign institutional investors (QFII) affects investors’ and analysts’ reactions to SCSR disclosures. Finally, our extended analyses reveal that SCSR disclosures have a positive effect on firm performance, which seems to be a plausible reason for investors’ and analysts’ positive reactions to SCSR disclosures.

Keywords: Strategic Corporate Social Responsibility, Market Reactions, Analysts Following, One Belt One Road, Firm Performance

JEL Classification: M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Yingjun and Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com), Indra, Do Investors and Analysts Value Strategic Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosures? Evidence from China (2021). Lu, Y. & Abeysekera, I. 2021.Do Investors and Analysts Value Strategic Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosures? Evidence from China. Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting, Vol. 32, NO. 2, pp. 147-181. https://doi.org/10.1111/jifm.12126, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3854277 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3854277
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
One Belt One Road" development strategy, an initiative that focuses on connectivity and cooperation among countries along both the "Silk Road Economic Belt" and the "Maritime Silk Road" which run from China through the continents of Asia
Europe and Africa
) Content, mainly including a firm's CSR performance in terms of economic, environmental and social aspects; (3) Technique, mainly including information comparability, credibility and transparency of a firm's CSR disclosure; and (4) Industry, including specific industry indicators. Each sub-dimension contains multiple indicators and each indicator may also contain multiple terminal score points. A composite CSR score is calculated based on the weighted average scores of these four sub-dimensions
RKS builds a comprehensive CSR rating index to measure CSR disclosure quality of Chinese listed firms
After that we drop 42 firms whose CSR reports are not available. CSR disclosure is not mandatory for all Chinese firms. Both the SSE and the SZSE that are fully owned by the government and directly supervised by the CSRC, have mandated the release of an annual CSR report for a subset of firms since
These required firms include firms listed on the SSE Corporate Governance Sector, firms with overseas listings, financial firms, and firms included in the SZSE 100 Index Posted: 2008-12
The PCA results are available on request. We do not present them here because they are only preparatory stages for our cluster analyses
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
800
RANK
524,565
5 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies