Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Assurance on Risk Management Systems Relevant for Bankers’ Decisions?

Posted: 28 May 2021 Last revised: 16 Jun 2021

Kevin Gauch

Technical University of Darmstadt - Department of Accounting and Auditing

Reiner Quick

Technical University of Darmstadt

Date Written: May 7, 2021

Abstract

Risk management systems (RMS) are an essential element of corporate governance and support companies in managing the omnipresent internal and external risks. Assurance on such systems can support such effort and add further benefits. This study investigates the impact of RMS assurance on the perceptions and decisions of German bankers, and analyzes whether the assurance provider and the assurance level are relevant to them. We conducted an experiment with 145 bankers, using ANOVA to analyze their reliance on the hypothetical company’s RMS and their decisions regarding lending, recommending investments, and investing in stocks. A 2×2+1 between-subjects design was chosen, and we manipulated the assurance provider (audit firm vs. third-party provider) and the assurance level (limited vs. reasonable), and added a control condition with no assurance. Our results indicate that RMS assurance positively influences banker perceptions and decisions, whereas the assurance provider and assurance level has no significant impact on them.

Keywords: Risk management, risk management system, assurance level, assurance provision, assurance services

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Gauch, Kevin and Quick, Reiner, Is Assurance on Risk Management Systems Relevant for Bankers’ Decisions? (May 7, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3854803 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3854803
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
603
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies