Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digitalization and Assurance of IFRS Financial Reports

38 Pages Posted: 28 May 2021 Last revised: 2 Oct 2021

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Keith Duncan

Bond University - Accounting

Ray McNamara

James Cook University, College of Business Law & Governance

Seppo Ikaheimo

Aalto University; Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

David Derichs

Aalto University

Date Written: May 27, 2021

Abstract

We investigate if additional customized disclosure increases transparency or opacity for firms from IFRS reporting jurisdictions that adopt digitized financial statement filing. We identify the major data items that require customized extensions (firm specific) with digitized IFRS financial data and the deviations occurring in current implementations of digitalized data (XRBL lodgment). The findings have implications for regulators in determining the form and nature of extensions to allow, practitioners in preparing and coding digitized financial statements, and changes in auditing and the assurance of digitized financial statements.

Keywords: XBRL, IFRS Taxonomy, Structured data, Information Assurance, Auditing digital reports, Customized Extensions Elements, Information asymmetries

JEL Classification: M1

Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk and Duncan, Keith R. and McNamara, Ray and Ikaheimo, Seppo and Ikaheimo, Seppo and Derichs, David, Digitalization and Assurance of IFRS Financial Reports (May 27, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3855045 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3855045
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
G A Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 Posted: 1970
M Alles , R Debreceny
The evolution and future of XBRL research
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 13 , p. 83 - 90 Posted: 2012
M Alles , M Piechocki
Will XBRL Improve Corporate Governance? A Framework for Using Interactive Data to Enhance Governance Decision Making Posted: 2009
M Alles , M Piechocki
Will XBRL improve corporate governance? A framework for enhancing governance decision making using interactive data
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 13 , p. 91 - 108 Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Cecília Moraes Santostaso Geron , Edson Luiz Riccio , Marta Cristina Pelucio Grecco
Use of the XBRL Language: potential benefits to brazilian companies
International Journal of Innovation , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 1 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
355
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,484
RANK
192,754
1 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies