Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Governance Role of Auditors: Evidence from Derivative Lawsuits

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

68 Pages Posted: 28 May 2021 Last revised: 28 Oct 2024

Susan Shu

Boston College

Xu Li

The University of Hong Kong

Qian Xin

School of Economics and Management, Harbin Institute of Technology Shen Zhen

Date Written: May 26, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines whether external auditors play a unique governance role distinct from other mechanisms of corporate governance. We exploit the staggered adoptions of the Universal Demand (UD) laws by U.S states, which have been shown to result in the decline of various corporate governance mechanisms. We examine whether auditors step up their monitoring when outside shareholders place a greater demand on external monitoring, yet other governance mechanisms decline. We find that external auditors are more likely to issue going-concern opinions to financially distressed firms after their incorporation states have adopted the UD laws. Further, the increased propensity to issue going-concern opinions is driven by auditors’ reputation and litigation concerns. The effect is stronger when alternative governance mechanisms are weak, and it is not attenuated by auditors’ financial ties to clients. We also find evidence of greater auditor monitoring after the passage of UD laws using two alternative outcomes, i.e., the reporting of internal control weakness and the length of audit reporting lag. Overall, our findings suggest the unique monitoring role of external auditors as they step up their oversight of the audited firms in the lapse of other monitors.

Keywords: Auditing; Value of Auditing; Going Concern, Corporate Governance; Derivative Lawsuits

Suggested Citation:

Shu, Susan and Li, Xu and Xin, Qian, The Governance Role of Auditors: Evidence from Derivative Lawsuits (May 26, 2021). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3855088 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3855088
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
J R Barth , G Caprio , R Levine
Bank supervision and regulation: What works best
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 248 Posted: 2004
R Bayless
How the division of corporation finance influences accounting practices and financial reporting standards Posted: 2000
T Blackburne , J Kepler , P Quinn , D Taylor
Undisclosed SEC investigations. Management Science, forthcoming Posted: 2020
C A Cassell , L M Dreher , L A Myers
Reviewing the SEC's review process: 10-K comment letters and the cost of remediation
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 6 , p. 1875 - 1908 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,314
RANK
318,538
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies