Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Disclosure and Management Control: The Experience of Edison

Management Control

Posted: 1 Jun 2021

Matteo Molinari

University of Bergamo - University of Bergamo,; University of Roehampton

Maria Pia Maraghini

University of Siena

Angelo Riccaboni

University of Siena

Date Written: May 28, 2021

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to investigate the role of management control systems. Particularly, this research aims at examining how management control systems support (1) the implementation of sustainability strategies within the organization and (2) the non-financial reporting process.

This qualitative research focuses on the case study of Edison. Data include sustainability reports, sustainability plans, and non-financial reports that the organization published during the last three years. Moreover, the authors interview the organization’s sustainability managers, management accountants, and controllers to grasp certain peculiarities related to the use of management control systems, and to deepen this control systems’ role in the sustainability disclosure process.

Relying on Merchant and Riccaboni’s (2001) theoretical framework, this study finds that management control systems play a key role, summarized as follows: support in the decision-making process, definition of objectives and related sustainability targets, monitoring activities, guidance in identifying corrective actions, and measures for an effective improvement of non-financial performance.

From a practical perspective, the findings of this study provide interesting insights related to the definition and implementation of organizational solutions for economic and financial equilibrium; moreover, the findings of this study also provide interesting insights in terms of sustainability performance.

Keywords: Sustainability Disclosure, Management Control Systems, Energy Industry, Non-Financial Reporting, Sustainability Strategy.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Molinari, Matteo and Maraghini, Maria Pia and Riccaboni, Angelo, Sustainability Disclosure and Management Control: The Experience of Edison (May 28, 2021). Management Control , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3855562
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
419
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies