Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investment in Hard Times: Unintended Effects of Mandatory Dividend Policy in State-Owned Business Group

48 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2021

Dongmin Kong

School of Economics, Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Lihua Liu

Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Date Written: May 31, 2021

Abstract

This study examines capital allocation efficiency in the business group when parent firms experience adverse shocks of financial conditions. We exploit a quasi-experiment in China, the mandatory dividend of a state-owned business group in 2007, to conduct difference-in-differences estimation, and find that: (1) When parent central state-owned enterprises are mandatorily required to pay dividend to the governments (parent CSOEs), their group-affiliated listed central state-owned enterprises (listed CSOEs) substantially improve investment efficiency. (2) A plausible mechanism is that adverse cash shocks of parent CSOEs could facilitate the resource reallocation through related party transactions within a business group motivated by the listed CSOEs’ investment opportunity instead of the parent CSOEs’ tunneling behavior. (3) Our findings are more pronounced for firms with better external and internal governance. Overall, we provide the empirical evaluation of the economic consequences of mandatory dividend policy in terms of a firm’s investment efficiency within a state-owned business group.

Keywords: Mandatory dividend policy; Investment efficiency; Business group; Related party transactions; Corporate governance, China.

JEL Classification: G34, G31

Suggested Citation:

Kong, Dongmin and Liu, Lihua, Investment in Hard Times: Unintended Effects of Mandatory Dividend Policy in State-Owned Business Group (May 31, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3856964 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3856964
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
871
RANK
448,944
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies