Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Board Diversity and Firm Financial Performance: New Evidence from Nigeria

Posted: 11 Jun 2021

Onyinyechukwu Aghadike

Independent

Date Written: June 1, 2021

Abstract

The bourn of this research was to study the influence of corporation governance characteristics on monetary performance of registered firms in Nigeria. The research intended to answer two study queries: what is the relationship between boards of directors’ characteristics (board independence, board size, and board nationality) of public listed companies in Nigeria and the firms’ financial performance? And what impact does gender diversity among boards of directors’ of Nigerian public listed companies have on firms’ financial performance?

The research applied the panel study designs while the longitudinal survey study method was made use of for collection of statistics. The research depended on secondary sources of statistics to collate figures for the variables, and embraced the purposive sampling procedure. The ideal populaces for the research were manufacturing firms registered with the Nigeria Stock Exchange (NSE). The specimen size for the research was 20 manufacturing firms. The statistics was collated from secondary sources of the annual report and accounts, fact books, and publications of the Nigerian stock exchange (NSE). The Hausman test was carried out to ascertain whether to apply Fixed Effects or Random Effects regression. It tested the null proposition to certify that the coefficients predicted by the random effects approximator are one and the same as the coefficients predicted by the unswerving fixed effects approximator.

The correlation analysis indicated that the correlation between return on asset (firm financial performance), board size, foreign board member, board gender diversity, firm size and firm age respectively were negative except the independent board members, which was positively correlated with firm performance. The study concludes that board size and independent board of director have a positive and significant effect while board gender diversity has a negative but significant effect and foreign board member has a negative but insignificant effect on performance of manufacturing firms listed on the NSE.

Keywords: Board diversity, Financial Performance, Corporate governance

JEL Classification: G28, G34, M12, M14

Suggested Citation:

Aghadike, Onyinyechukwu, Corporate Board Diversity and Firm Financial Performance: New Evidence from Nigeria (June 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3857930
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
663
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies