Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mutual Fund Liquidity Management, Stock Liquidity, and Corporate Disclosure

55 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2021

Liwei Weng

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: May 31, 2021

Abstract

This study presents novel evidence that mutual fund liquidity management affects stock liquidity. Exploiting a proposal by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as an exogenous shock to mutual fund liquidity management, I find that mutual fund liquidity management improves stock liquidity of firms in mutual fund portfolios. This improvement is more pronounced when mutual funds have stronger incentives to improve portfolio liquidity and more resources to influence firms and when portfolio firms have lower stock liquidity prior to the SEC proposal. Consistent with mutual funds influencing portfolio firms to be more transparent, I further show that improving disclosure among portfolio firms is one mechanism through which stock liquidity is improved. Overall, the results indicate that liquidity management at the fund level has important implications for stock liquidity and information disclosure of portfolio firms.

Keywords: mutual fund liquidity management, stock liquidity, corporate disclosure

JEL Classification: G23, D40, M41, D82

Suggested Citation:

Weng, Liwei, Mutual Fund Liquidity Management, Stock Liquidity, and Corporate Disclosure (May 31, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3857426 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3857426
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
I Abramova , J E Core , A Sutherland
2020. Institutional Investor Attention and Firm Disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 21
Crossref
V Agarwal , K A Mullally , Y Tang , B Yang
Mandatory Portfolio Disclosure, Stock Liquidity, and Mutual Fund Performance
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , issue 6 , p. 2733 - 2776 Posted: 2015
Crossref
V Agarwal , R Vashishtha , M Venkatachalam
Mutual Fund Transparency and Corporate Myopia
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 31 , issue 5 , p. 1966 - 2003 Posted: 2018
Crossref
V Agarwal , H Zhao
Interfund Lending in Mutual Fund Families: Role in Liquidity Management
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , issue 10 , p. 4079 - 4115 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
686
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,923
RANK
86,837
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies