Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Micro-Corporate-Governance of a Strictly Informational Cascade, As Illustrated with Analysis of the Performativity of the Black-Scholes-Merton Model

83 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2021 Last revised: 8 Jun 2021

Henry Wurts

Independent

Date Written: June 7, 2021

Abstract

While macro-corporate-governance (e.g., addressing how a governance process should be administered within a corporate structure) seems to be widely discussed in academic literature, a discussion of micro-corporate-governance (e.g., assessing specific models, including regarding whether they accurately represent a corporate risk exposure) seems sparse, as does midi-corporate-governance (e.g., the model validation process itself, as an administered process toward specific models). An important part of corporate governance (CG) is the model validation (MV) process, with one example of micro-CGMV being how “strictly informational cascades” can influence a validation process, even perhaps suggesting that model validation is not required. Yet, such cascades are not often transparent, and not often detected by validators who are not technically trained. This paper illustrates how a variety of “attention directing tools” used as “fast and frugal heuristics” can help in the model validation process in general and the specific task of identifying “strictly informational cascades.” The tools are applied toward the Black-Scholes-Merton Model, a seminal financial derivatives model that is approaching a 50th anniversary of publication, and are illustrated to demonstrate that lessons can be learned to apply to more-complex models and more-complex financial instruments.

Keywords: corporate governance, model validation, strictly informational cascade, CGMV, micro-CGMV, performativity, Black-Scholes-Merton (BSM) Model, Bad Creativity

JEL Classification: G3, G32, G12, G13, B26, C52

Suggested Citation:

Wurts, Henry, On the Micro-Corporate-Governance of a Strictly Informational Cascade, As Illustrated with Analysis of the Performativity of the Black-Scholes-Merton Model (June 7, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3857857 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3857857
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
169 References
Consider 4 lessons, of the many that can be identified. Lesson 1. The SIC that have been identified regarding the BSM Model generally (mis)apply wherever the BSM Model has been applied, yet also serve as a frame for evaluating more-complex models and more-complex financial instruments (i.e., MCMI). In the process, a similar claim made regarding the Put-Call Parity analysis (and lessons-learned in Wurts
derivation and application, and merely repeats mistakes others have canonized. And specific SIC have been identified regarding the BSM Model, even specifically regarding "failures" of derivation Posted: 2018
for which such a hedge is not only Incomplete, it is also Unattainable. Lesson 2. Another important lesson-learned is that the BSM Model applies to only some options and not all options, yet not in the specific manner the predominate SIC represents. Namely, and in contrast, the BSM Model does apply to some American style options (e.g., when the owner chooses never to exerciseearly the option and the underwriter chooses never to default, and other details are attended to) Posted: 1974
where writers (1) reference a cognitive burden imposed by an effective HSBB frame (even adding Kassouf (1965), as mentioned in the MacKenzie Cognitive Simplicity Statement in Theme 1.2 in subsection 2.2.4, which would make it a HSBKB frame) that requires additional parameters to be estimated (e.g., as a cognitive burden) but (2) fail to reference that the BSM model simply assumes comparative restrictive parameterization without even providing evidence that such parameterization is rightly valid
] and not to stand-alone options; further, the model presumes no option will default. And yet, the (rational) uncodified option valuation paradigm
So Fifth
And even where "performativity" is described as "[the model does something and not merely describes something]," fails to adequately describe how the model even lives up to the precursor "describes" before "does" is identified. For example, there seems to be a dearth of evidence to demonstrate that BSM Prices (i.e., pricing calculations where the aggregate input (i.e., the {mu, sigma, S, r} quadruplet) has been demonstrated to be in compliance with derivation requirements according to the two generic hedge-portfolio derivations provided by Black and Scholes (1973) and Merton (1973)) have ever been identified as observed market prices-regardless of the ease of demonstrating that mere BSM price calculations can be demonstrated to equate to observed market prices when (in a circular argument) the corresponding BSM Implied Volatility is used as input (for chosen, but not verified, S and r input). Hence, a performativity of observed option prices has yet to be demonstrated, despite considerable evidence of performativity of modeling technology use. Yet, while modeling technology use has increased, it has done so with a risk reconceptualization that has "swept away" even the evaluation of underlying risk (e.g., by assuming infinitesimal stock price movement is GND, despite that even the first ability to measure price movement (i.e., tick-by-tick) provides evidence of noninfinitesimal non-Gaussian movement)
th Anniversary, what has the BSM approach actually accomplished as being performative? Interestingly, some measures of the "success" and accomplishment of the BSM Model have not necessarily been clear regarding how either "success" or "accomplishment" has been measured
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
699
RANK
906,046
169 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Derivatives eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies