Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors influencing dividend policy in manufacturing companies

Putra, I.A. and Panggabean, R.R. 2021. Factors influencing dividend policy in manufacturing companies. Prosiding Working Papers Series in Management Vol 13, No 1.

21 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2021

Imbron Ahmady Putra

Bina Nusantara University (BINUS) - Faculty of Economics

Rosinta Ria Panggabean

Accounting Department, Faculty of Economics and Communication, Bina Nusantara University

Date Written: May 31, 2021

Abstract

Purpose: This research aims to analyze and provide empirical evidence on cash position, collateralizable assets and firm's life cycle on dividend policy with firm's size and debt to equity ratio as the control variables. Methodology: The population includes manufacturing companies listed on Indonesia Stock Exchange and The Philippines Stock Exchange during the period of 2015-2017. The total samples of 144 were gathered from Indonesia and 81 samples were gathered from Philippine. To analyze the data, a quantitative data analysis method was used and to calculate the data, statistical method with Eviews application was used which consists of descriptive statistic test, classical assumption test, panel data regression, and the hypothesis testing. Findings: the results revealed that cash position has a significant effect on dividend policy on both Indonesian samples and Philippine samples. Whereas, collateralizable assets, firm's life cycle, firm's size, and debt to equity ratio do not have significant effects on dividend policy on both Indonesian and Philippine. It is recommended that future research add the number of company samples from other industries, not only manufacturing. It is also suggested to use company samples from other countries outside the scope of this research, and to increase the number of observed data by expanding the observed years. Additionally, it is also suggested to add other variables such as growth rate, market to book value, investment opportunity set that may potentially affect dividend policy. Value: comparison of determinants of dividend policy in Indonesia and Philippine.

Keywords: dividend policy, firm's life cycle, manufacturing company

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Putra, Imbron Ahmady and Panggabean, Rosinta Ria, Factors influencing dividend policy in manufacturing companies (May 31, 2021). Putra, I.A. and Panggabean, R.R. 2021. Factors influencing dividend policy in manufacturing companies. Prosiding Working Papers Series in Management Vol 13, No 1., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3857333
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Apriliani , K Natalylova
Faktor-faktor yang mempengaruhi kebijakan dividen pada perusahaan manufaktur di Bursa Efek Indonesia
Jurnal Bisnis dan Akuntansi , volume 19 , issue 1a , p. 49 - 57 Posted: 2017-11
S Bhattacharya
Imperfect information, dividend policy and the bird in the hand
Journal of Economics , volume 10 , p. 259 - 270 Posted: 1979
Crossref
H Deangelo , L Deangelo , R Stulz
Dividend policy and the earned / contributed capital mix: a test of the lifecycle theory
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 18 , issue 81 , p. 53 - 62 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Dwiyanti , D Rahadian
The effects of free cash flow, life cycle, and leverage on dividend policy of technology, media, and telecommunication companies listed in the Indonesia Stock Exchange
International Journal of Economics, Commerce and Management , volume 5 Posted: 2017-04
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
813
RANK
325,744
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies