Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enhancer or Stabilizer? Investigating the Distinct Roles of Primary and Secondary Corporate Social Responsibility In Value Creation
Journal of Business Research

40 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2021 Last revised: 29 Nov 2021 Publication Status: Published

Hao Lu

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Oleksiy Osiyevskyy

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Xiaoyu Liu

Saint Mary's University, Canada - Sobey School of Business

Abstract

Value implications of corporate social responsibility (CSR) have been extensively studied in the existing literature. Yet, most prior investigations of this relationship analyze CSR’s impact on the level of firm value across different contexts without considering the risk associated with such impact (the reliability). Understanding the reliability effect of CSR is important as it unpacks the risky nature of CSR investment. Classifying CSR activities as competitive advantage seeking and legitimacy seeking, we develop a theoretical framework providing a holistic view of CSR’s impact on value distribution (in terms of both level and reliability, simultaneously). Based on panel data from U.S. public companies, our results suggest that primary-stakeholder-oriented CSR activities demonstrate a “risky investment” property and function as a value enhancer, while secondary-stakeholder-oriented CSR activities demonstrate a “risk reduction” property and functions as a value stabilizer.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Firm Value, Reliability of Value Creation, Primary CSR, Secondary CSR

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Hao and Osiyevskyy, Oleksiy and Liu, Xiaoyu, Enhancer or Stabilizer? Investigating the Distinct Roles of Primary and Secondary Corporate Social Responsibility In Value Creation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3857433
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
V V Acharya , Y Amihud , L Litov
Creditor rights and corporate risk-taking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 150 - 166 Posted: 2011
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4949 Posted: 2019
S Alhouti , C M Johnson , B B Hollowway
Corporate social responsibility authenticity: Investigating its antecedents and outcomes
Journal of Business Research , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 1242 - 1249 Posted: 2016
M Arellano , S Bond
Some tests of specification for panel data: Monte Carlo evidence and an application to employment equations
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 297 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
502
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Specialities
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies