Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Merger Control in Hong Kong: Towards a Global Convergence of Telecom Merger Remedies?

Knut Fournier, Merger control in Hong Kong: Towards a global convergence of telecom merger remedies?, January 2015, Concurrences N° 1-2015, Art. N° 69264, pp. 240-246

Posted: 10 Jun 2021

Knut Fournier

Hong Kong Shue Yan University

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

Merger control has been part of the Hong Kong’s legal landscape for the past ten years, although it only concerns mergers in the telecom sector. The new Competition Ordinance, which will fully enter into force in 2015, does not contain provisions for a cross-sector merger control mechanism. It only provides that the new Hong Kong Competition Commission will ultimately be in charge of merger control in the telecom sector after a transitional period. The first part of this paper explores the merger control rules in Hong Kong, in order to understand what are the implications of the recent competition law reforms on the current system. The second part of this paper offers views on the recent evolution of the merger control practice in Hong Kong, and compares the remedies in the recent HKT/CSL merger decision with the H3G/Orange Austria remedies at the European Commission. The findings are that the remedies are very similar and could signal the emergence of a global telecom merger remedies practice. This has implications for Hong Kong as well as for the consolidation of telecom markets across jurisdictions.

Keywords: Hong Kong, International, Merger Remedies, Merger, Reform, Institutions, Competition Policy, Telecommunications

JEL Classification: K21

Suggested Citation:

Fournier, Knut, Merger Control in Hong Kong: Towards a Global Convergence of Telecom Merger Remedies? (2015). Knut Fournier, Merger control in Hong Kong: Towards a global convergence of telecom merger remedies?, January 2015, Concurrences N° 1-2015, Art. N° 69264, pp. 240-246, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3857518
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
296
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies