Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Threat of a PCAOB Inspection Mitigate US Institutional Investors’ Home Bias?

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 3 Jun 2021

Yue He

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Bing Li

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Zhenbin Liu

Hong Kong Baptist University

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Date Written: May 21, 2021

Abstract

We exploit the staggered introduction of the PCAOB’s international inspection program to examine the role that the stringency of public audit oversight plays in shaping US institutional investors’ home bias. Analyzing a sample of foreign firms listed in the United States, we evaluate whether US institutional investors hold larger equity stakes in these firms―a longstanding issue that reflects investor portfolio decisions―if their auditors are exposed to the threat of a PCAOB inspection. In a differences-in-differences framework, we find that US listed foreign firms enjoy an increase in US institutional investors’ equity positions after their auditors become subject to PCAOB inspection access. Cross-sectional analysis implies that the benefit of the PCAOB inspection threat in mitigating US institutional investors’ home bias is concentrated in: foreign countries without a strict local audit oversight system; active US institutional investors that are known to value accounting transparency; and firms from countries that grant PCAOB access later (after the onset of its international inspection program in 2005). Our evidence suggests that foreign firms become better known in the capital markets under the PCAOB inspection program, which induces US institutional investors to acquire larger equity stakes in US listed foreign firms given the lower information asymmetry that ensues under the PCAOB inspection threat.

Keywords: PCAOB inspection, audit quality, US institutional investors, home bias, inspection threat

JEL Classification: G18, L51, M4

Suggested Citation:

He, Yue and Li, Bing and Liu, Zhenbin and Pittman, Jeffrey A., Does the Threat of a PCAOB Inspection Mitigate US Institutional Investors’ Home Bias? (May 21, 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3858418
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
525
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies