Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR Reporting and Firm Value: International Evidence on Management Discussion and Analysis

China Accounting and Finance Review, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2021

Xiaohui Fiona LI

School of Management, Jinan University; Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Albert Tsang

School of Business, Southern University of Science and Technology, China

Sanyun Zeng

Guangdong University of Foreign Studies

Gaoguang Zhou

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) - Department of Accountancy & Law

Date Written: March 31, 2021

Abstract

This study examines whether and how the practice of providing CSR information in the management discussion and analysis (MD&A) section of annual reports affects the relation between CSR performance and firm value in an international context. Based on a large sample from 42 countries, our results indicate that while providing CSR information in the MD&A section does not increase the price investors are willing to pay for the stock of a firm with high CSR performance, it does decrease the price they will pay for the stock of firms with high CSR concerns. Further analyses show that this finding is more likely to be observed when the perceived CSR reporting quality is greater, the level of investors’ CSR awareness is higher, and the development of a country’s institutional environment is better. Finally, consistent with the conjecture that the CSR disclosure channel matters to investors, our evidence shows that firms with high CSR concerns are less likely to provide environmental and social information in their annual reports.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Firm Value, Institutions, Voluntary Disclosure, MD&A

JEL Classification: G15, M14, M4

Suggested Citation:

LI, Xiaohui Fiona and Tsang, Albert and Zeng, Sanyun and Zhou, Gaoguang, CSR Reporting and Firm Value: International Evidence on Management Discussion and Analysis (March 31, 2021). China Accounting and Finance Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3858416
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
112 References
The value of extrafinancial disclosure: What investors and analysts said
Accounting for Sustainability and the Global Reporting Initiative Posted: 2012
A Arya , H Frimor , B G Mittendorf
Discretionary disclosure of proprietary information in a multisegment firm
Management Science , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 645 - 658 Posted: 2010
Crossref
D Baboukardos , G Rimmel
Value relevance of accounting information under an integrated reporting approach: A research note
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 437 - 452 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J Wu
Incentives versus standards: Properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue 1-3 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
476
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,775
RANK
137,584
112 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies