Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Preparers and the Financial Reporting System

Accounting and Business Research, forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2021

Sarah E. McVay

University of Washington

Brandon Szerwo

University at Buffalo (SUNY) - School of Management

Date Written: March 31, 2021

Abstract

We review the accounting and related literature on the preparation of public company financial reports. We highlight numerous impediments to producing high quality financial reports, focusing on the roles of management, the board of directors, and internal audit. Key incentives of the CEO do not encourage investments in financial reporting quality, despite evidence that these investments provide net benefits to the firm, instead, key incentives appear to elicit myopia. We also demonstrate that although theoretically the board of directors and internal audit are integral components of firms’ internal controls, in practice there are numerous obstacles to effective oversight, including a lack of independence from management. Recent regulations have lessened but not fully mitigated these concerns.

Keywords: Financial Reporting, Management, Board of Directors, Incentives, Regulation

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

McVay, Sarah E. and Szerwo, Brandon, Preparers and the Financial Reporting System (March 31, 2021). Accounting and Business Research, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3858103 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3858103
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
156 References
A Barua , L Davidson , D Rama , S Thiruvadi
CFO gender and accruals quality
Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 39 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Beasley
An empirical analysis of the relation between the board of director composition and financial statement fraud
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
Crossref
L Bebchuk , J Fried , D Walker
Managerial power and rent extraction in the design of executive compensation
University of Chicago Law Review , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 751 - 846 Posted: 2002
Crossref
L Bebchuk , J Fried
Pay without performance: The unfulfilled promise of executive compensation Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
749
RANK
511,510
156 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies