Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Language Style Matching and CFO Turnover

53 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2021 Last revised: 21 Apr 2025

Yongqiang Chu

Belk College of Business, UNC Charlotte

Angela Xia Liu

UNC Charlotte

Alfred Z. Liu

Louisiana Tech University - College of Business

Date Written: April 18, 2025

Abstract

Using language style matching (LSM) derived from CEOs’ and CFOs’ responses in earnings calls as a proxy for CEO-CFO cohesion, we show that higher LSM is negatively associated with CFO turnover but not CEO turnover, and this association is moderated by other mechanisms of corporate governance and the CEO-CFO connection in work history. We apply our theoretical prediction to the specific events of accounting restatements and find consistent results. Our study provides new evidence for using LSM to capture the CEO-CFO dyad’s social interactions and documents complementary evidence that social cohesion can have negative implications for corporate governance and decision-making. 

Keywords: Language Style Matching, CFO Turnover, CEO Turnover, Governance, Social Interaction

JEL Classification: D91, G39, G41, Z13

Suggested Citation:

Chu, Yongqiang and Liu, Angela Xia and Liu, Alfred, Language Style Matching and CFO Turnover (April 18, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3859439 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3859439
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
L Argote , D Gruenfeld , C Naquin , M E Turner
Group learning in organizations
Groups at Work: Theory and Research , p. 369 - 411 Posted: 2001
L S Bamber , J Jiang , I Wang
What's my style? The influence of top managers on voluntary corporate financial disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
K A Bantel , S E Jackson
Top management and innovations in banking: Does the composition of the top team make a difference?
Strategic Management Journal , volume 10 , issue S1 , p. 107 - 124 Posted: 1989
M R Barrick , B H Bradley , A L Kristof-Brown , A E Colbert
The moderating role of top management team interdependence: Implications for real teams and working groups
Academy of Management Journal , volume 50 , issue 3 , p. 544 - 557 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
363
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,702
RANK
187,924
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies