Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What is a Firm? A Reply to Jean-Philippe Robé

Journal of Institutional Economics, Forthcoming

14 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2021

Simon Deakin

University of Cambridge - Centre for Business Research (CBR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); University of Cambridge - Faculty of Law

David Gindis

University of Warwick - Warwick Law School

Geoffrey M. Hodgson

Loughborough University London

Date Written: May 10, 2021

Abstract

In his recent book on 'Property, Power and Politics', Jean-Philippe Robé makes a strong case for the need to understand the legal foundations of modern capitalism. He also insists that it is important to distinguish between firms and corporations. We agree. But Robé criticizes our definition of firms in terms of legally recognized capacities on the grounds that it does not take the distinction seriously enough. He argues that firms are not legally recognized as such, as the law only knows corporations. This argument, which is capable of different interpretations, leads to the bizarre result that corporations are not firms. Using etymological and other evidence, we show that firms are treated as legally constituted business entities in both common parlance and legal discourse. The way the law defines firms and corporations, while the product of a discourse which is in many ways distinct from everyday language, has such profound implications for the way firms operate in practice that no institutional theory of the firm worthy of the name can afford to ignore it.

Keywords: Firms, Theory of the firm, Business Corporations, Legal Personality, Legal Institutionalism

JEL Classification: B52, D20, K10, L20

Suggested Citation:

Deakin, Simon F. and Gindis, David and Hodgson, Geoffrey M., What is a Firm? A Reply to Jean-Philippe Robé (May 10, 2021). Journal of Institutional Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3859486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Zoe Adams , Catherine Barnard , Simon Deakin , Fraser Butlin
Posted: 2021
Richard P Adelstein
Firms as Persons', Cahiers d'économie politique , volume 65 , p. 161 - 182 Posted: 2013
Philip I Blumberg
The Multinational Challenge to Corporation Law: The Search for a New Corporate Personality Posted: 1993
Eduard Braun
Carl Menger: Contribution to the Theory of Capital (1888), Section V'
Journal of Institutional Economics , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 557 - 568 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
774
RANK
422,747
5 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies