Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revealing the Social Pillar under the Lens of Materiality: Corporate Social Performance, Corporate Financial Performance, and Organizational Benefits

Posted: 8 Jun 2021

Florian Habermann

Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt - Ingolstadt School of Management; University of Lausanne - Faculty of Business and Economics (HEC Lausanne)

Date Written: June 5, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the corporate social performance (CSP)-corporate financial performance (CFP) relationship under the lens of materiality, focusing on the social pillar. Based on a theoretical and empirical framework, we identify employee and product-related issues as material (i.e., directed towards primary stakeholders) and issues concerning communities and diversity as immaterial (i.e., directed towards secondary stakeholders). We empirically test the relevance of primary and secondary CSP on both CFP and organizational benefits (OB). Applying Refinitv social pillar ratings of U.S. firms listed in the S&P 500 from 2006 to 2019 as CSP proxies, we run static and dynamic panel data regressions. The results show that primary CSP (i.e., directed towards primary stakeholders) provides OB and leads to superior accounting-based CFP, while no such effect exists for secondary CSP. With our findings, we contribute to prior materiality research by providing a first approach to examine the structural relations (i.e., OB) that lead to superior CFP when increasing primary CSP. Consequently, this study provides relevant implications for managers, policymakers, and practitioners alike.

Keywords: Corporate Social Performance (CSP), Materiality, Organizational Benefits, Corporate Financial Performance (CFP)

JEL Classification: M14

Suggested Citation:

Habermann, Florian, Revealing the Social Pillar under the Lens of Materiality: Corporate Social Performance, Corporate Financial Performance, and Organizational Benefits (June 5, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3860722
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
456
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies