Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Environmental Enforcement and Private Lender Monitoring: Evidence from Environmental Covenants

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

70 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2021 Last revised: 15 Jul 2023

Stacey Choy

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Gies College of Business

Shushu Jiang

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

Scott Liao

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Emma Wang

Cornell University - Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Date Written: July 15, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines whether and how public environmental enforcement affects private lenders’ monitoring efforts and the effectiveness of such monitoring. We capture lender monitoring using environmental covenants in loan agreements. Consistent with the prediction that stringent public environmental enforcement increases lenders’ monitoring incentives, we find that in the presence of higher environmental regulatory enforcement intensity, lenders are more likely to use environmental covenants when lending to polluting borrowers and when the loans are secured by real property collateral. Moreover, consistent with the prediction that stringent public environmental enforcement facilitates lender monitoring, we find that environmental covenants are more effective in reducing borrowers’ toxic chemical releases when environmental regulatory enforcement is stronger. Taken together, our findings corroborate the importance of public environmental enforcement in inducing lenders’ monitoring efforts, as well as the joint role of public enforcement and private lender monitoring in curbing corporate pollution.

Keywords: Public environmental enforcement, private lender monitoring, environmental covenants, debt contracting

JEL Classification: G00, G21, G30, G38, M40

Suggested Citation:

Choy, Stacey and Jiang, Shushu and Liao, Scott and Wang, Yu, Public Environmental Enforcement and Private Lender Monitoring: Evidence from Environmental Covenants (July 15, 2023). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3860178 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3860178
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
C H Achen , L M Bartels
Democracy for realists: Why elections do not produce responsive government Posted: 2016
P Akey
Valuing changes in political networks: Evidence from campaign contributions to close congressional elections
Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 11 , p. 3188 - 3223 Posted: 2015
P Akey , I Appel
Environmental externalities of activism Posted: 2020
The limits of limited liability: Evidence from industrial pollution
Journal of Finance , volume 76 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 55 Posted: 2021
Load more
21 Citations
Thang Vu Nguyen
Green Economic Development and Transition to Low-Carbon Economy in the East and Southeast Asia
, p. 109 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Natalie Kyung Won Kim , Sera Choi , Taejin Jung , Sohee Park
How does demand uncertainty from climate change exposure affect the firms' cost structures? Examining the real effects of climate change on the firms' operational decisions
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 30 , issue 6 , p. 2969 Posted: 2023
Crossref
SHIRA COHEN , IGOR KADACH , GAIZKA ORMAZABAL , STEFAN REICHELSTEIN
Executive Compensation Tied to ESG Performance: International Evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 61 , issue 3 , p. 805 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Tomasz Braun
The Cambridge Handbook of EU Sustainable Finance
, p. 622 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,198
RANK
42,772
21 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies