Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Identifying Politically Connected Firms: A Machine Learning Approach

25 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2021

Deni Mazrekaj

University of Oxford

Vítězslav Titl

Utrecht University - School of Economics; Charles University in Prague - Department of Economics

Fritz Schiltz

KU Leuven

Date Written: June 4, 2021

Abstract

This article introduces machine learning techniques to identify politically connected firms. By assembling information from publicly available sources and the Orbis company database, we constructed a novel firm population dataset from Czechia in which various forms of political connections can be determined. The data about firms’ connections are unique and comprehensive. They include political donations by the firm, having members of managerial boards who donated to a political party, and having members of boards who ran for political office. The results indicate that over 85% of firms with political connections can be accurately identified by the proposed algorithms. The model obtains this high accuracy by using only firm-level financial and industry indicators that are widely available in most countries. These findings suggest that machine learning algorithms could be used by public institutions to improve the identification of politically connected firms with potentially large conflicts of interests.

Keywords: Political Connections, Corruption, Prediction, Machine Learning

JEL Classification: D72,P16

Suggested Citation:

Mazrekaj, Deni and Titl, Vítězslav and Schiltz, Fritz, Identifying Politically Connected Firms: A Machine Learning Approach (June 4, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3860029 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3860029
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
J Abbasi
First Biomarker-Based Screening Tool for PTSD
Journal of the American Medical Association , volume 322 , issue 15 Posted: 2019
Crossref
B Archer
Legal proceedings against UK government over awarding of £108m PPE contracts to Antrim firm Posted: 2009
E Ash , S Galletta , T Giommoni
A Machine Learning Approach to Analyze and Support Anti-Corruption Policy
Unpublished Manuscript , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2020
S Basu , K Kumbier , J B Brown , B Yu
Iterative random forests to discover predictive and stable high-order interactions
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , p. 1943 - 1948 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Daniel Hoang , Kevin Wiegratz
Machine learning methods in finance: Recent applications and prospects
European Financial Management , volume 29 , issue 5 , p. 1657 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Roberta Di Stefano , Giuliano Resce
The Determinants of Missed Funding: Predicting the Paradox of Increased Need and Reduced Allocation
YJUEC-D-23-00385 · 28 Pages · Posted: 13 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 56
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Roberta Di Stefano , Giuliano Resce
The Determinants of Missed Funding: Predicting the Paradox of Increased Need and Reduced Allocation
JEBO-D-24-00775 · 29 Pages · Posted: 29 May 2024 · Downloads: 13
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,267
RANK
302,262
3 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies