Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Safety-oriented Culture and Lending Decisions

57 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2021 Last revised: 14 Jul 2022

Ning Tang

National Chiao Tung University

Amina Kamar

University of Limoges - Laboratoire d'Analyse et de Prospectives Économiques (LAPE)

Chih-Yung Lin

National Chiao Tung University

Chien-Lin Lu

National Ilan University

Date Written: June 5, 2021

Abstract

In this study, we investigate the effects of bank safety-oriented culture on loan contracts. We propose a new measure that derives a bank’s safety-oriented culture from its business model. We provide several validation tests to confirm that our measure can represent the safety-oriented culture of banks. Our empirical results show that banks with a safety-oriented culture increase the probability of signing a contract with low risk borrowers and that they charge lower loan spreads. We also find that these banks ask for more loan covenants to protect their creditor’s rights. Finally, banks with a safety-oriented culture suffer less from borrowers’ defaults and have higher market responses around the dates of loan announcements. Also, our findings reject the alternative hypothesis that banks with a safety-oriented culture only accept less risky lending due to their conservative risk attitude, thus destroying market value for banks.

Keywords: Bank culture, bank loan contracts, credit risk, default event, and market response

JEL Classification: G21, G24, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Tang, Ning and Kamar, Amina and Lin, Chih-Yung and Lu, Chien-Lin, Bank Safety-oriented Culture and Lending Decisions (June 5, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3860627 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3860627
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
V Acharya , H Naqvi
The seeds of a crisis: A theory of bank liquidity and risk taking over the business cycle
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 106 , issue 2 , p. 349 - 366 Posted: 2012
V Acharya , H Naqvi
On reaching for yield and the coexistence of bubbles and negative bubbles
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 38 , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 2019
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
S Ahn , W Choi
The role of bank monitoring in corporate governance: Evidence from borrowers' earnings management behavior
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 434 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,003
RANK
418,259
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies