Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Board Structure and Loan Syndication

57 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2021

Lindsay Baran

Kent State University

Steven Dennis

University of North Dakota

Maneesh Shukla

Kent State University

Date Written: June 2021

Abstract

We study the impact of bank board structure on loan syndication and find both monitoring quality and connections of the lead bank’s board have a positive effect on three measures of the ability to syndicate a larger portion of a loan. Board monitoring quality plays a more dominant role during the financial crisis and following a negative reputation shock to the lead arranger. Board member connectedness is dominant for lower reputation lead arrangers. Our results are robust to an instrumental variable approach for endogeneity. Overall, we conclude that lead arranger board quality serves as a credible signal to participant banks.

Keywords: Bank board of directors, loan syndication, agency conflict

JEL Classification: G21, G34

Suggested Citation:

Baran, Lindsay and Dennis, Steven and Shukla, Maneesh, Bank Board Structure and Loan Syndication (June 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3860110 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3860110
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Eliezer M Fich , Anil Shivdasani
Are busy boards effective monitors?
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , p. 689 - 724 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Laura Field , Michelle Lowry , Anahit Mkrtchyan
Are busy boards detrimental?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 63 - 82 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Mark J Flannery
Using market information in prudential bank supervision: A review of the US empirical evidence
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking , p. 273 - 305 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Mariassunta Giannetti , Luc Laeven
The flight home effect: Evidence from the syndicated loan market during financial crises
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 104 , p. 23 - 43 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
756
RANK
481,162
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies