Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creditor Rights, Corporate Leverage and Investments, and the Firm Type

43 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2021 Last revised: 11 Dec 2023

Aras Canipek

Columbia University

Axel H. Kind

University of Konstanz

Jiri Tresl

University of Mannheim; Charles University in Prague - CERGE-EI, a joint workplace of Charles University and the Economics Institute of the Czech Academy of Sciences

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 7, 2021

Abstract

Stronger creditor rights reduce credit costs and thus may allow firms to increase leverage and investments. Yet, they also increase distress costs and thus may prompt firms to lower leverage and undertake risk-reducing but unprofitable investments. Using a German bankruptcy reform, on average, we find evidence consistent with the latter hypothesis. We also hypothesize and find evidence that the effect of creditor rights on corporate leverage and investments depends on the firm type (particularly, firm size), as it influences the effect that creditor rights have on credit costs and distress costs and thus which effect dominates. Our understanding reconciles mixed empirical evidence and has important implications for optimal bankruptcy design. In particular, it points to a menu of procedures in which a debtor-friendly and creditor-friendly procedure co-exist and thus allow different types of firms to utilize the procedure that suits them best.

Keywords: creditor rights, bankruptcy law, corporate leverage, corporate investments

JEL Classification: G31, G32, G33, G34, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Canipek, Aras and Kind, Axel H. and Tresl, Jiri, Creditor Rights, Corporate Leverage and Investments, and the Firm Type (June 7, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3861905 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3861905
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Acharya , V Viral , Lubomir Yakov Amihud , Litov
Creditor rights and corporate risk-taking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , p. 150 - 166 Posted: 2011
Kevin Aretz , Murillo Campello , Maria-Teresa Marchica
Access to collateral and the democratization of credit: France's reform of the Napoleonic Security Code
Journal of Finance , volume 75 , p. 45 - 90 Posted: 2020
Kenneth M Ayotte , Edward R Morrison
Journal of Legal Analysis , volume 1 , p. 511 - 551 Posted: 2009
Sechs Jahre ESUG: Durchbruch erreicht Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
329
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,260
RANK
53,111
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies