Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Human Rights Due Diligence and Corporate Governance

Human Rights Due Diligence for Lawyers, American Bar Association, Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2021 Last revised: 29 Apr 2022

John Sherman

Corporate Responsibility Initiative

Date Written: April 29, 2022

Abstract

To meet its responsibility to respect human rights under the 2011 UN Guiding Principles and Business and Human Rights, a corporation must conduct human rights due diligence. To be effective, human rights due diligence must be embedded into corporate culture through effective leadership that is firmly grounded in corporate governance. Even in the most shareholder-protective jurisdiction (the U.S. State of Delaware), corporate fiduciaries have a duty of loyalty to act affirmatively in good faith to promote the best interests of the corporation.

Meeting this fiduciary duty means applying recognized corporate governance management systems to identify and address the strong business case for respecting human rights, as well as the wide ranging mixture of legal risks of corporate involvement in business in human rights abuse. Legal risks are increasingly arising from the evolution of human rights due diligence from soft law to hard law, and include mandatory human rights due diligence laws, evolving legal standards of duty of care, and private law.

As corporate fiduciaries, corporate legal officers play key roles in integrating human rights due diligence into corporate governance, not only by advising the board and senior management on their legal duties, but also by exercising their leadership roles within the company. Examples of leadership by corporate legal officers include going beyond advising on how to avoid legal liability, taking the organizational lead in avoiding involvement in gross human rights abuse, and not abusing legal privilege to chill open discussion of human rights problems.

Going forward, two issues to watch closely are the fate EU directors’ duties reform initiative, and the use of human rights due diligence as a defense to legal liability.


Keywords: Human Rights Due Diligence, Corporate Governance, UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Fiduciary Duty

JEL Classification: K39, N30, L21, Z

Suggested Citation:

Sherman, John, Human Rights Due Diligence and Corporate Governance (April 29, 2022). Human Rights Due Diligence for Lawyers, American Bar Association, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3862624 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3862624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
657
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,408
RANK
59,382
3 Citations
120 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies