Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Move to Success? Headquarters Relocation, Political Favoritism, and Corporate Performance

Journal of Corporate Finance, Vol. 64, No. 101698, 2020

61 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2021

Shuo Chen

Fudan University - Department of Economics

Xun Yan

World Bank

Bo Yang

University of Southern California - Management and Organization Department

Date Written: June 8, 2021

Abstract

This study documents an unexplored corporate rent-seeking phenomenon in non-representative
regimes—relocating headquarters (HQ) to the political center. Focusing on China, we find that
firms that relocate their HQs to Beijing (the political center) enjoy increased political favors, but
those that move to Shanghai or Shenzhen (the country's two main economic centers) do not.
Although both groups of movers experience improved profitability, their sustainable growth
paths diverge after relocating. Firm productivity and innovation worsen after relocating to
Beijing, but improve after moving to Shanghai or Shenzhen. Overall, these findings support the
argument that political favoritism benefits firms' profitability but impairs their productivity and
innovation.

Keywords: Headquarters relocation, Political favoritism, Corporate performance

JEL Classification: D22, G38, L25, R30

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Shuo and Yan, Xun and Yang, Bo, Move to Success? Headquarters Relocation, Political Favoritism, and Corporate Performance (June 8, 2021). Journal of Corporate Finance, Vol. 64, No. 101698, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3862756
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
7 Citations
Yourong Wang , Gang-Zhi Fan , Shijun Jia
Unveiling the Value of House Price Premiums Surrounding Political Centers: An Empirical Exploration
32 Pages · Posted: 25 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 37
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Zhigang Zheng , Jie Michael Guo , Guangshun Zhu , Haoyang Yuan
The Economic Costs of Sustainability- Evidence from China's Land Market
57 Pages · Posted: 15 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 75
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Xiaoyuan Liu , Zhe Shen , Qian Sun , Yixin Tian
Firm Location, Private Information Acquisition and Corporate Bond Underpricing
PBFJ-D-24-00441 · 43 Pages · Posted: 3 May 2024 · Downloads: 22
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mircea Epure , Feng Zhou
Corporate Flight from Uncertainty and Business Dynamism
54 Pages · Posted: 6 Jun 2024 · Last revised: 28 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 184
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
925
RANK
467,197
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies