Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility on the Corporate Financial Performance: Evidence from Russian and Dutch Companies

Journal of Corporate Finance Research. Vol. 16 | № 2 | 2022

17 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2021 Last revised: 13 Oct 2022

Olga N. Volkova

Independant

Date Written: January 9, 2021

Abstract

Abstract. This research paper aims to investigate the impact of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) reporting on Russian and Dutch companies’ financial performance (CFP). The theoretical framework we use is the stakeholder theory. The study applies regression analysis to obtain quantitative evidence of CSR-CFP relations. Companies’ CSR involvement is measured by reputation index - CSRhub. Return on equity ratio has been chosen as a measure of corporate financial performance. Our findings demonstrate a weak positive correlation between CSR and companies’ ROE. Moreover, the research shows the existence of a higher CSR impact on Russian companies’ financial performance comparing to the Dutch one. The results may become useful for corporate management while assessing a financial return from CSR strategies. This work also provides an alternative way for a quantitative operationalization of companies’ social performance, which is especially important for further statistical researches.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, CSR, sustainability, return on equity, corporate financial performance, regression analysis, Russian companies, Dutch companies

JEL Classification: M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Volkova, Olga N., The Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility on the Corporate Financial Performance: Evidence from Russian and Dutch Companies (January 9, 2021). Journal of Corporate Finance Research. Vol. 16 | № 2 | 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3863541 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3863541
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
H Wang , L Tong , R Takeuchi , G George
Corporate social responsibility: An overview and new research directions
The Academy of Management Journal , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 534 - 544 Posted: 2016
V Munro , Csr
for purpose, shared value and deep transformation: The new responsibility
CSR historical and emerging themes and related terms , volume 2020 , p. 15 - 51
M Mulej , R Bohinc , M Mulej , G O'sullivan , T Štrukelj
Social responsibility: An application of and support to systemic behaviour
Palgrave studies in governance, leadership and responsibility , volume 2 , p. 1 - 30
B Sheehy
Defining CSR: Problems and solutions
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 131 , issue 3 , p. 625 - 648 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
315
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,570
RANK
219,707
1 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies