Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Evolution of Environmental Discourse: Evidence from Conference Calls

48 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2021 Last revised: 28 Jun 2021

Elaine Henry

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business

Xi Jiang

Stevens Institute of Technology

Andrea Rozario

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: June 25, 2021

Abstract

We examine the evolution of environmental discourse in conference calls and whether and how this discourse affects firm valuation. We measure the amount of environmental discourse as the frequency count of environmentally-related topics in the transcripts of conference calls. We find that environmental discourse increased substantially from 2006 to 2020 and that discourse is incrementally informative – beyond environmental performance metrics and environmental disclosures – for firm valuation. Specifically, we find that greater environmental discourse in conference calls is associated with higher cost of capital and lower share price, which we interpret as suggesting that discussion of environmental topics increases uncertainty. We also find that the amount of discourse in the prepared remarks portion of conference calls dominates that in the Q&A portion as an explanatory factor for firm value. We complement our analysis by examining the value-relevance of general ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) discussion and show that more general ESG discourse is associated with lower cost of capital and higher share price, implying a more favorable valuation impact of general discussions of social and governance issues.

Keywords: textual analysis, environmental disclosure, firm valuation, conference calls

Suggested Citation:

Henry, Elaine and Jiang, Xi and Rozario, Andrea, The Evolution of Environmental Discourse: Evidence from Conference Calls (June 25, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3863354 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3863354
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and how investors use ESG information: Evidence from a global survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
Crossref
B M Barber , R Lehavy , B Trueman
Ratings changes, ratings levels, and the predictive value of analysts' recommendations
Financial Management , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 533 - 553 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M E Barth , M F Mcnichols
Estimation and market valuation of environmental liabilities relating to superfund sites
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 32 , p. 177 - 209 Posted: 1994
Crossref
H Berkman , J Jona , N S Soderstrom
Firm-specific climate risk and market valuation Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
933
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,272
RANK
57,660
6 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies