Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk-Taking Incentives and Earnings Management: New Evidence

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Fox School of Business Research Paper Forthcoming

Posted: 16 Jun 2021

Michael Mayberry

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Hyun Jong Park

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Tian Xu

Texas A&M University- Corpus Christi

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 3, 2021

Abstract

We reexamine the positive association between stock option vega and earnings management previously documented in Armstrong et al. (2013; ALOT). In contrast to ALOT, prior empirical research and practitioner literature emphasizes earnings management’s goals of increasing stock price and reducing volatility. Specifically, we assess whether the association is robust to (i) employing discretionary accruals that are less prone to misspecification, (ii) focusing on a more recent time period, and (iii) including additional controls for period-specific factors. Our main findings are as follows. First, we fail to find a positive association between vega and earnings management after controlling for performance-related misspecification in discretionary accruals. Second, we find no association between vega and earnings management in a more recent time period, suggesting the results of ALOT may be sensitive to period-specific factors. Lastly, the positive association vanishes when we control for year fixed effects, growth opportunities, or monitoring, suggesting the original ALOT’s results may be sensitive to correlated, omitted variables. Overall, our results question the extent to which vega incentivizes earnings management. Our results may be of interest to boards of directors in designing executive compensation contracts; to regulators in crafting policies that maintain high levels of financial reporting quality; and to researchers seeking to identify settings where earnings management incentives are most salient.

Keywords: equity incentives, executive compensation, earnings management, stock options risk-taking incentives

Suggested Citation:

Mayberry, Michael and Park, Hyun Jong and Xu, Tian, Risk-Taking Incentives and Earnings Management: New Evidence (June 3, 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Fox School of Business Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3863193
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
516
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies