Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Corporate investment and stock market listing: Why are US and EU results so different?

NYU Stern School of Business Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2021 Last revised: 3 Oct 2025

Olga Bogachek

Free University of Bolzano - Faculty of Economics and Management

Massimiliano Bonacchi

Free University of Bolzano - Faculty of Economics and Management; Stern School of Business, New York University

Paul Zarowin

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 24, 2025

Abstract

We investigate whether public capital markets facilitate or hinder investment, addressing conflicting findings between US and European studies. While some argue that stock market pressures induce short-termism, others contend that public firms invest more efficiently due to greater access to capital. Using a multi-country European dataset, we show that public firms invest more and are more sensitive to investment opportunities than private firms, and that prior US results suggesting investment myopia in public firms are likely driven by selection bias in private firm datasets. Our analysis shows that the source of the different US versus European results is that the Sageworks database of US private firms likely over-represents more successful firms that raise external capital to fund investment. Unlike the US, where private firm reporting is voluntary, European financial disclosure requirements present a sample of private firms that is less susceptible to self-selection. We demonstrate that imposing a Sageworks-style selection bias on European private firms reverses the results, replicating the patterns found in the US studies. Our findings underscore the critical role of selection bias in shaping conclusions on capital market effects and call for greater scrutiny in private firm data comparisons.

Keywords: capital market short-termism, private firms

JEL Classification: D22, G15, G31, G32, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bogachek, Olga and Bonacchi, Massimiliano and Zarowin, Paul,

Corporate investment and stock market listing: Why are US and EU results so different?

(September 24, 2025). NYU Stern School of Business Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3864212 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3864212
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
V V Acharya , R K Sundaram , K John
Cross-country variations in capital structures: The role of bankruptcy codes
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 54 Posted: 2011
V V Acharya , Z Xu
Financial dependence and innovation: The case of public versus private firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 124 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 243 Posted: 2017
V A Aggarwal , D H Hsu
Entrepreneurial exits and innovation
Management Science , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 887 Posted: 2014
R V Aguilera , C A Williams , J M Conley , D E Rupp
Corporate governance and social responsibility: A comparative analysis of the UK and the US
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 147 - 158 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
373
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,002
RANK
182,421
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies