Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility: The Influence of Employee Engagement on Corporate Social Responsibility

Ali, B. J., & Anwar, G. (2021). Corporate Social Responsibility : The Influence of Employee Engagement on Corporate Social Responsibility. Journal of Humanities and Education Development, 3(3), 77–83. https://doi.org/10.22161/jhed.3.3.8

7 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2021

Bayad Jamal Ali

Komar University for Science and Technology

Govand Anwar

Knowledge University - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: June 12, 2021

Abstract

Including more people being aware of corporate social responsibility, questions have arisen concerning whether there is a link between employee engagement and corporate social responsibility. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is being considered as a significant component of a company's performance and activities, with the goal of increasing employee engagement. The goal of this study is to find out how employee engagement and corporate social responsibility are linked. The research was carried out in Erbil, Kurdistan, at vehicle dealerships. In total, 53 people took part in this study. According to the findings of this study, higher levels of corporate social responsibility can lead to higher levels of employee engagement, which supports the research hypothesis. The researchers recommended getting a larger sample size for similar studies in the future due to the study's restriction of a limited sample size.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Employee Engagement, Erbil, Kurdistan

Suggested Citation:

Ali, Bayad Jamal and Anwar, Govand, Corporate Social Responsibility: The Influence of Employee Engagement on Corporate Social Responsibility (June 12, 2021). Ali, B. J., & Anwar, G. (2021). Corporate Social Responsibility : The Influence of Employee Engagement on Corporate Social Responsibility. Journal of Humanities and Education Development, 3(3), 77–83. https://doi.org/10.22161/jhed.3.3.8, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3865598
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
528
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,846
RANK
121,386
1 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies