Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Textual Measure of Business Strategy

Fox School of Business Research Paper Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2021 Last revised: 6 Aug 2021

Rajiv D. Banker

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Xinjie Ma

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 14, 2018

Abstract

This paper uses text parsing analysis on managerial self-disclosure in regulatory Form 10-K and develops a three-dimensional measure of business strategy for a large sample over 22 years. To ensure content validity, we draw the keyword list from prior literature. Adding to the face validity of the three-dimensional measure, we show that the measure exhibits substantial variation across and within industries and changes over time in responding to economic shocks. We also observe an overall persistent trend of the measure, indicating that the measure has high test-retest reliability. Further, we examine construct validity and find that the measure behaves as theory predicts. We find evidence that different strategies imply different resource allocation to strategic investments, affect important earnings properties and accounting policies, and have different implications on firm performance.

Keywords: Business strategy, Competitive advantage, Textual analysis

JEL Classification: L21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Banker, Rajiv D. and Ma, Xinjie, A Textual Measure of Business Strategy (May 14, 2018). Fox School of Business Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3866300 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3866300
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
556
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,968
RANK
114,072
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies