Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Proxy Advice Allow Funds to Cast Informed Votes?

USC CLASS Research Paper No. CLASS21-37

USC Law Legal Studies Paper No. 21-37

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB, No. Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2021 Last revised: 25 Oct 2022

John G. Matsusaka

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; USC Gould School of Law

Chong Shu

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Date Written: October 25, 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates if proxy advice leads mutual funds to vote as if they had acquired information on their own. We find, for the period 2004-2017, that advice from Glass Lewis typically moved fund voting in the same direction as self-information, while advice from ISS led funds to vote in the opposite direction. A vote was “self-informed” vote if the fund visited and downloaded information about a company from the SEC’s Edgar website before voting. A fund’s proxy advisor is identified from the format of its regulatory filing. We also find that ISS advice typically made funds more likely to support outcomes preferred by socially responsible investors. We suggest that ISS may have slanted its recommendations in response to pressure from socially responsible investors that wanted to influence ISS’s robo-voting customers.

Keywords: Proxy voting, proxy advice, corporate governance, shareholder rights

JEL Classification: G3, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Matsusaka, John G. and Shu, Chong, Does Proxy Advice Allow Funds to Cast Informed Votes? (October 25, 2022). USC CLASS Research Paper No. CLASS21-37, USC Law Legal Studies Paper No. 21-37, USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB, No. Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3866041 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3866041
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
486
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,376
RANK
134,171
3 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Southern California Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies