Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
STO vs. ICO: A Theory of Token Issues under Moral Hazard and Demand Uncertainty

Miglo, Anton. 2021. STO vs. ICO: A Theory of Token Issues under Moral Hazard and Demand Uncertainty. Journal of Risk and Financial Management 14: 232. https://doi.org/10.3390/jrfm14060232

35 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2021

Anton Miglo

Wilfried Laurier University Waterloo

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 21, 2021

Abstract

This paper considers a financing problem for an innovative firm that is launching a web-based platform. The entrepreneur, on one hand, faces a large degree of demand uncertainty on
his product and on the other hand has to deal with incentive problems of professional blockchain
participants who contribute to the development and sales of the product. We argue that hybrid tokens can be a better option for the firm compared to straight utility tokens or security tokens because they help the firm better deal with both the moral hazard problems (via profit sharing incentives) and demand uncertainty (they help the firm learn the market demand for the product). This finding is consistent with some recent evidence. The paper also generates new predictions regarding the effect of different variables on the choice of financing method that have not yet been tested

Keywords: entrepreneurial finance; blockchain; initial coin offering; security token offering; moral hazard; demand uncertainty; FinTech

JEL Classification: D82; G32; L11; L26; M13

Suggested Citation:

Miglo, Anton, STO vs. ICO: A Theory of Token Issues under Moral Hazard and Demand Uncertainty (May 21, 2021). Miglo, Anton. 2021. STO vs. ICO: A Theory of Token Issues under Moral Hazard and Demand Uncertainty. Journal of Risk and Financial Management 14: 232. https://doi.org/10.3390/jrfm14060232, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3866799
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
See , ; Oxera , Nadaulda
See Turulja and Bajgori´cBajgori´c (2018) on the links between knowledge acquisition and innovation Posted: 2015
Kukoin
Posted: 2019-04-19
In Section 7, we discuss the model's assumptions including the ways of modelling moral hazard, demand for the product and so forth
In Section 7, we discuss more possible strategies of financing
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
811
RANK
137,237
5 Citations
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies