Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit Function Quality and Corporate Governance: The Case of Greece

Multinational Finance Journal 25(1&2), 1-61 (2021)

51 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2021 Last revised: 16 Jun 2021

Christina Vadasi

University of the Aegean

Michalis Bekiaris

University of the Aegean

Andreas Andrikopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department Maritime Studies

Date Written: December 15, 2020

Abstract

Internal audit is fundamental in maintaining transparency in the dissemination of information about a company’s financial position and performance. In this respect, the quality of internal audit is essential for effective corporate governance. We construct a composite measure of the quality of the internal audit function and explore its association with "good" corporate governance. Employing data from 45 listed companies in the Athens Stock Exchange, we discover that "good" corporate governance affects internal audit function quality, since the internal audit function is better in companies that comply with certain corporate governance guidelines. On the other hand, we find limited evidence on the effect of internal audit function quality on effective corporate governance. We also discover that internal audit’s active role in corporate governance is shaped by company-wide characteristics such as size, internationalization and CEO duality.

Keywords: internal audit, internal audit function, quality, corporate governance, Athens Stock Exchange, survey

Suggested Citation:

Vadasi, Christina and Bekiaris, Michalis and Andrikopoulos, Andreas, Internal Audit Function Quality and Corporate Governance: The Case of Greece (December 15, 2020). Multinational Finance Journal 25(1&2), 1-61 (2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3866954
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
342
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,259
RANK
200,848
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies