Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategy, Intellectual Capital, and Operating Performance

Forthcoming, International Journal of Managerial and Financial Accounting

Posted: 23 Jun 2021 Last revised: 11 Mar 2022

Vasilios-Christos Naoum

University of Piraeus

Dimitrios Ntounis

University of Southampton - Southampton Business School

Orestes Vlismas

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: June 15, 2021

Abstract

This study explores the relationship between intellectual capital (IC) and future operating performance under the prism of different strategic orientations (i.e., prospectors versus defender) and explanations (i.e., investing versus signaling). Our data sample consists of 11,085 firm-year observations of US listed firms for the period 2000–2019. We employed organizational capital and R&D capital as measures of a firm’s IC intensity. It seems that strategy affects the likelihood of a firm to be classified as a low or high IC intensive. Organizational capital improves future operating performance across firms with the same or with different strategic orientations. R&D capital affects primarily prospectors’ future operating performance. Depending on the measure of IC intensity or operating performance, the positive relationship between IC and future operating performance can be explained because either the IC expenditures operate as investments that improve future performance or expectations for improved future operating performance trigger increased IC expenditures.





Keywords: Strategy, Intellectual capital, Operating performance

Suggested Citation:

Naoum, Vasilios-Christos and Ntounis, Dimitrios and Vlismas, Orestes, Strategy, Intellectual Capital, and Operating Performance (June 15, 2021). Forthcoming, International Journal of Managerial and Financial Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3867261 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3867261
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
615
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies