Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Transfer Pricing, Leverage, and Sales Growth on Tax Avoidance

10 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2021

Mukhtar Mukhtar

Universitas Sultan Ageng Tirtayasa

Date Written: June 15, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the effect of transfer pricing, leverage, and sales growth on tax avoidance. The study conducted to gain more consideration on tax avoidance issue worldwide, particularly in member of Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) sample of manufacturing companies in the food and beverage sub-sector of the consumer goods industry listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) is used. The number of samples of 30 is the number of the study population with an observation time of four years from 2016 to 2019. Multiple regression model statistics with one dummy variable representing the transfer pricing variable are performed and used for Hypothesis testing. The results indicate that there is no effect of transfer pricing and sales growth on tax avoidance, while leverage has an effect on tax avoidance.

Keywords: Transfer Pricing; Leverage; Sales Growth; Tax Avoidance

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Mukhtar, Mukhtar, The Effect of Transfer Pricing, Leverage, and Sales Growth on Tax Avoidance (June 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3867195 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3867195
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Fadjarenie Agustin , Apni Yulia , Nur Anisah
Pengaruh Corporate Governance dan Sales Growth Terhadap Tax Avoidance (Studi Empiris Pada Perusahaan Otomotif Yang Terdaftar Di Bursa Efek Indonesia Tahun
STAR-Study & Accounting Research , issue 3 , p. 48 - 58 Posted: 2010
John E. Baiden
Transfer Pricing Methods and Benefits
Pages: 18 Posted: 28 Jun 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John E. Baiden
Transfer Pricing Methods and Benefits
Pages: 18 Posted: 28 Jun 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Barker , K Asare , S Brickman
Transfer Pricing As A Vehicle In Corporate Tax Avoidance
Journal of Applied Business Research (JABR) , volume 33 , issue 1 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,747
RANK
38,237
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies