Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Acquisition Motive of Newly Credit Rated Firms

44 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2021 Last revised: 8 Sep 2023

Magnus Blomkvist

EDHEC Business School

Karl Felixson

Swedish School of Economics and Business Administration

Eva Liljeblom

Swedish School of Economics and Business Administration

Hitesh Vyas

Audencia Business School

Date Written: September 7, 2023

Abstract

We study initial and subsequent effects of credit ratings on acquisition activity. Our findings suggest that access to bond markets, i.e. overcoming bank lending constraints, in order to conduct large and high quality acquisitions is an important motive for becoming rated. This initial connection drives many prior results. However, following the initial credit rating effect, acquisition activity actually dampens in response to credit rating induced monitoring. Monitoring by credit rating agencies is linked to diversifying acquisitions, acquisitions of low risk targets and a reduced likelihood of overpayment.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Credit Ratings, Monitoring, Capital Supply, Bond Ratings, Overinvestment

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Blomkvist, Magnus and Felixson, Karl and Liljeblom, Eva and Vyas, Hitesh, The Acquisition Motive of Newly Credit Rated Firms (September 7, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3867565 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3867565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
790
RANK
552,669
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies