Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Career Concerns and Financial Reporting Quality

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2021 Last revised: 1 Oct 2025

Suil Pae

Sungkyunkwan University, SKK GSB

Date Written: June 12, 2021

Abstract

Managerial career concerns could affect firm efficiency through financial reporting quality, but this important link has received relatively little attention in the literature. The present study examines this link by developing a model that has the following elements. A risk-neutral manager provides effort to increase the market value of the firm and to favorably influence the market assessment of the manager’s ability. Depending on the magnitude of career concerns, the manager either under- or overinvests effort relative to an efficiency-maximizing level. The analysis identifies conditions un-der which higher-quality reporting induces the manager to invest more effort. Under these condi-tions, the model is extended to a setting in which the manager also chooses the quality of financial reporting at some cost. In doing so, the manager seeks to reduce distortion in their effort invest-ment. The equilibrium reporting quality and effort investment are determined by a trade-off be-tween them. In the presence of high uncertainty about the firm’s future cash flows, if the manager’s career concerns exceed a threshold, the manager underinvests in reporting quality and overinvests effort. The empirical implication is a negative relation between managerial career concerns and fi-nancial reporting quality. To a large extent, this is consistent with findings in prior empirical studies. Thus, the present study offers a theoretical explanation for the empirical findings as an equilibrium outcome.

Keywords: career concerns, financial reporting quality, efficiency

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Pae, Suil, Career Concerns and Financial Reporting Quality (June 12, 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3868232
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
A Arya , B Mittendorf
The benefits of aggregate performance metrics in the presence of career concerns
Management Science , volume 57 , p. 1424 - 1437 Posted: 2011
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Career concerns and accounting performance measures in nonprofit organizations , volume 40 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2015
Load more
5 Citations
Miró Feller , Ulrich Schäfer
Deceiving Two Masters: The Effects of Labor Market Incentives on Reporting Bias and Market Efficiency
AAA 2018 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting · 60 Pages · Posted: 31 May 2017 · Last revised: 13 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 350
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mahmoud Delshadi , Mahmoud Hosseinniakani , Zabihollah Rezaee
Does Options Trading Deter Real Activities Manipulation?
46 Pages · Posted: 1 Sep 2021 · Last revised: 10 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 156
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tae Wook Kim , Jing Li , Suil Pae
Career Concerns, Investment, and Management Forecasts
The Accounting Review, forthcoming, HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive · 48 Pages · Posted: 13 May 2022 · Last revised: 28 Oct 2024 · Downloads: 432
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dimitrios Gounopoulos , Georgios Loukopoulos , Panagiotis Loukopoulos , Yu Zhang
Do CFO Career Concerns Matter? Evidence From IPO Financial Reporting Outcomes
<p>Has been accepted and processed for production</p> <p>Forthcoming at Journal of Corporate Finance; Accepted Manuscript</p> · 78 Pages · Posted: 4 Mar 2023 · Last revised: 24 Jul 2024 · Downloads: 211
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2
ABSTRACT VIEWS
530
5 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies