Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transnational Company’s CSR Activity on Regional Markets

Posted: 29 Jun 2021

Elena Zavyalova

Moscow State Institute of International Relations (MGIMO-University)

Date Written: April 23, 2021

Abstract

The main purpose of any business is profit maximization. But in the modern world it cannot be achieved without pursuing Sustainable Development and CSR principles. Undoubtedly, SDG and CSR best practices are gaining popularity in business community development. In the near future more companies, including small businesses will be involved in this process.

However, more and more cases prove that the main driving force for the companies to launch CSR programs is too far from charity and humanitarian ideas. Companies see the activity as an additional tool to increase their competitive advantage. The author used the comparison method to prove the point. The companies for analyses were selected on the bases of the dynamics of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the past 5 years. Then from the list the author has chosen the companies with the biggest overseas CSR activities. The research shows that CSR of the selected companies is closely related to their production priorities on the local market. The research also proves that achieving the comparable increase of the market share in the country of presence in case of CSR programs requires 10 times less investment than in case of traditional marketing practices. The research was based on a five-year perspective with GR and lobbing expenses added to the total amount of the CSR funding.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, CSR, methods to increase the market share, intangible assets

JEL Classification: D22, F14, F21, F23

Suggested Citation:

Zavyalova, Elena, Transnational Company’s CSR Activity on Regional Markets (April 23, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3868211
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
236
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies