Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Difficult Political Work': Strategic Responses to Climate Risk by Carbon-intensive Corporations

38 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2021

Marcel Metzner

University of Oxford - Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment

Anette Mikes

Harvard Business School

Date Written: June 16, 2021

Abstract

Governments, investors, and consumers have stepped up pressure on publicly listed companies to face up to climate risks and to reduce carbon emissions. At the same time, the pressure to deliver financial results remains strong. Based on research on 19 European carbon-intensive corporations in the chemical, steel, and utility industries, we explore how companies frame and reconcile their climate-risk-related objectives with their financial commitments, and enact a variety of response strategies. Overall, we find that corporations in heavy industries deploy four generic climate-response strategies: (1) Purposeful Green Strategies, (2) Engagement Strategies, (3) Green Differentiation, and (4) Defensive Strategies. We show that the organizational enactment of these strategic responses is conditioned by (1) corporations’ framing of climate risk as a threat or opportunity, (2) the perceived compatibility of decarbonization demands with existing commitments, and (3) their internal representations of feasible decarbonization-goals and responses. Our study highlights the importance of accounting and control tools and processes in mediating and bringing about institutional work, some of which may drive transformative innovation and impactful decarbonization strategies. Our evidence points at the rising importance of institutional work as an organizational capability in corporate responses to the climate change problem.

Keywords: climate risk, climate change, corporate strategy, accounting, risk management

JEL Classification: L1, L2, M4, Q5

Suggested Citation:

Metzner, Marcel and Mikes, Anette, 'Difficult Political Work': Strategic Responses to Climate Risk by Carbon-intensive Corporations (June 16, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3868564 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3868564
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
N W Arnell , E K Delaney
Adapting to climate change: Public water supply in England and Wales
Climatic Change , volume 78 , p. 227 - 255 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Averchenkova , F Crick , A Kocornik-Mina , H Leck , S Surminski
Multinational and large national corporations and climate adaptation: Are we asking the right questions? A review of current knowledge and a new research perspective
Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Climate Change , volume 7 , issue 4 , p. 517 - 536 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J Bailey , V Bérubé , J Godsall , C Kehoe
Short-termism: Insights from business leaders
Retrieved from Focusing Capital on the Long-Term website Posted: 2014
F Bate
France sets 2050 carbon-neutral target with new law. Reuters Posted: 2019-06-27
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
332
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,540
RANK
208,120
2 Citations
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies