Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Extraversion and Voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from Management Earnings Forecasts

38 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2021 Last revised: 7 Jul 2021

Chih-Hsien Liao

National Taiwan University

Ziyao San

York University, Schulich School of Business, Students

Albert Tsang

School of Business, Southern University of Science and Technology, China

Miao Yu

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Date Written: March 17, 2021

Abstract

This study examines whether and how the extraversion of a firm’s key executives influences its provision and the properties of management earnings forecasts. We provide evidence that firms with extraverted chief financial officers (CFOs) are more likely to have a greater level of voluntary disclosure. Specifically, we find that firms with extraverted CFOs tend to issue more earnings forecasts, forecasts with greater level of disaggregation, and forecasts accompanied by an internal attribution. However, we also find that the earnings forecasts issued by extraverted CFOs tend to be less timely and exhibit larger forecast errors. In contrast, we find no evidence that the extraversion of chief executive officers (CEOs) plays a significant role in either the provision or the properties of earnings forecasts. Further analysis suggests that after controlling for earnings forecast surprises, investors tend to react more strongly to earnings forecasts issued by extraverted CFOs. Collectively, our results suggest that the higher level of earnings forecasts associated with CFO extraversion is likely to result from the personality of the CFOs.

Keywords: big five; earnings forecast; extraversion; personality; voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Liao, Chih-Hsien and San, Ziyao and Tsang, Albert and Yu, Miao, Executive Extraversion and Voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from Management Earnings Forecasts (March 17, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3868814 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3868814
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,090
RANK
398,904
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies