Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Reforms around the World: The Effect on Corporate Social Responsibility

57 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2021

Chih-Hsien Liao

National Taiwan University

Ziyao San

York University, Schulich School of Business, Students

Albert Tsang

School of Business, Southern University of Science and Technology, China

Li Yu

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU)

Date Written: January 24, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the effects of major board reforms on firms’ corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance in countries around the world. Using a difference-in-differences design, we find robust evidence that worldwide board reforms can have significant effects on various stakeholders, resulting in increased firm CSR performance in both the environmental and social dimensions. Relative to countries that have implemented comply-or-explain reforms, countries with rule-based reforms tend to drive the increase in CSR performance post-reform. In addition, the effect of reforms on CSR performance is more pronounced for firms with higher levels of institutional ownership or lower levels of insider ownership and in countries with weaker CSR awareness and more stringent legal and regulatory environments. Further analyses show that reforms strengthen the relationship between CSR performance and future financial performance. Finally, we explore the possible mechanism through which board reforms could have a significant effect on firms’ CSR performance. We find that board reforms increase a firm’s likelihood of integrating CSR criteria in executive compensation.

Keywords: Corporate Governance; Corporate Social Responsibility; Sustainability; Insiders; CSR Contracting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Liao, Chih-Hsien and San, Ziyao and Tsang, Albert and Yu, Li, Board Reforms around the World: The Effect on Corporate Social Responsibility (January 24, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3868817 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3868817
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
120 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , R Stulz , R Williamson
Differences in governance practices between US and foreign firms: Measurement, causes, and consequences
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 3131 - 3169 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R V Aguilera , C A Williams
Law and finance': Inaccurate, incomplete, and important
Brigham Young University Law Review , volume 6 , p. 1413 - 1434 Posted: 2009
P Arora , R Dharwadkar
Corporate governance and corporate social responsibility (CSR): The moderating roles of attainment discrepancy and organization slack
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 19 , p. 136 - 152 Posted: 2011
Crossref
K H Bae , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami , X Zheng
Board reforms and dividend policy: International evidence
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
10 Citations
Anh‐Tuan Le , Thao Phuong Tran
Corporate governance and labor investment efficiency: International evidence from board reforms
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 30 , issue 5 , p. 555 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Jongwon Park , Sunyoung Kim , Albert Tsang
CEO Personal Hedging and Corporate Social Responsibility
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 182 , issue 1 , p. 199 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Long Chen , Chih-Hsien Liao , Albert Tsang , Li Yu
CEO Career Concerns in Early Tenure and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Reporting
47 Pages · Posted: 28 Jun 2017 · Last revised: 28 May 2024 · Downloads: 125
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hamdi Driss , Sadok El Ghoul , Omrane Guedhami , John K. Wald
Governance and Leverage: International Evidence
The Financial Review, forthcoming · 45 Pages · Posted: 20 Nov 2020 · Last revised: 14 Sep 2022 · Downloads: 221
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
263
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,166
RANK
265,489
10 Citations
120 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies