Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Enforcement and Firm Investment Efficiency: Evidence from Staggered Implementation of Tax Administration Information System

64 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2021

Fan Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)

Date Written: May 2021

Abstract

This paper examines how increased tax enforcement accompanied by the new tax administration system impacts firm investment efficiency, exploiting the staggered implementation of the third phase of the Golden Tax Project (GTP III) in China. Consistent with the monitoring role of tax authorities (Desai et al., 2007), I find that firms improved their investment efficiency after the local tax office adopted the new system. This effect is more pronounced when tax authorities previously suffered from resource constraints, when the tax enforcement is further enhanced through local fiscal pressure, and when firms have a higher ex-ante propensity to avoid taxes. An analysis of the potential mechanisms of this investment efficiency effect reveals that increased tax enforcement serves as a substitute for corporate governance in that it has positive spillover effects on financial reporting quality and that investments are more responsive to market prices.

Keywords: Tax Enforcement, Investment Efficiency, Information System, Agency Conflicts

JEL Classification: D25, G34, H26, H32, M40

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Fan, Tax Enforcement and Firm Investment Efficiency: Evidence from Staggered Implementation of Tax Administration Information System (May 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3869665 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3869665
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
A B Abel
Optimal investment under uncertainty
The American Economic Review , volume 73 , issue 1 , p. 228 - 233 Posted: 1983
H J Amberger , K S Markle , D M Samuel
Repatriation Taxes, Internal Agency Conflicts, and Subsidiary-level Investment Efficiency
The Accounting Review Posted: 2020
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Wenjing Gao , Jie Mao , Xinzheng Shi
Do firms benefit from public information services: Evidence from a tax hotline program in China
China Economic Review , volume 83 , p. 102078 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
331
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,811
RANK
208,120
1 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies