Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Characteristics and Quality of Financial Information: The Role of the Internal Information Environment and Political Connections

Journal of Risk and Financial Management 14: 273. https://doi.org/10.3390/jrfm14060273

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper

18 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2021

Omid Mehri Namakavarani

Islamic Azad University, Qazvin Branch

Abbas Ali Daryaei

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Davood Askarany

University of Auckland Business School

Saeed Askary

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

This study explores the relationship between audit committee characteristics and accounting information quality by justifying the role of the internal information environment and political connections under the theocracy state of Iran with syncretic politics. Using panel data of 558 firms from the Tehran Stock Exchange (TSE) for 2011–2016, we rank firms using Technique for Order Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution (TOPSIS) and entropy method for determination of the weight of evaluating indicators. The firms are positioned into high- to low-level political connections, and two proxies for audit committee characteristics are used: independence of audit committee and financial knowledge. Furthermore, three proxies are used for an internal information environment: learning announcement speed, the accuracy of earning forecasting and lack of financial restatements. Our findings show that there is a significant and positive relationship between the audit committee and financial information quality characteristics in high-level political connections, as well as between financial knowledge and financial information quality. Furthermore, the findings of this study suggest that the application of political economy theories could be appropriate for more inquiry.

Keywords: audit committee characteristics, accounting information quality, internal information environment, political connections, TOPSIS

Suggested Citation:

Mehri Namakavarani, Omid and Daryaei, Abbas Ali and Askarany, Davood and Askary, Saeed, Audit Committee Characteristics and Quality of Financial Information: The Role of the Internal Information Environment and Political Connections (2021). Journal of Risk and Financial Management 14: 273. https://doi.org/10.3390/jrfm14060273 , The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3869228
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
595
RANK
631,426
6 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies