Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Social Responsibility Always Begin at Home? The Relation Between Firms’ Pension Policies and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Indian School of Business WP Forthcoming

61 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2021

Divya Anantharaman

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Feng Gao

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Rutgers Business School at Newark & New Brunswick

Hariom Manchiraju

Indian School of Business

Date Written: June 21, 2021

Abstract

Pension freezes are highly visible corporate actions with the potential to hurt the firms’ reputation as a “responsible” employer. We document that firms sponsoring defined-benefit pensions step up CSR engagement following announcements of defined-benefit pension freezes. Freeze firms also increase their usage of CSR-related keywords in public disclosures following the freeze. We find a stronger CSR response to relatively more severe freezes, to more controversial cash-balance conversions, and in larger sponsors. This is consistent with CSR increases being motivated by the need for reputation-repair. We also find that CSR increases following an accounting rule change that makes pension deficits more visible. Collectively, our findings highlight an important driver of CSR: the need to restore or manage reputation, especially in the face of corporate actions that can hurt stakeholders.

Keywords: Pension Freezes, Pension Funding, Corporate Social Responsibility, Corporate Reputation

Suggested Citation:

Anantharaman, Divya and Gao, Feng and Manchiraju, Hariom, Does Social Responsibility Always Begin at Home? The Relation Between Firms’ Pension Policies and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities (June 21, 2021). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Indian School of Business WP Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3871192 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3871192
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
404
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,756
RANK
166,639
6 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies