Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Advantage of Industry Common Owners and Its Stabilizing Effect on Stock Price Crash Risk

Journal of Corporate Finance, 2025

45 Pages Posted: 6 Jul 2021 Last revised: 6 Mar 2025

Qingyuan Li

Wuhan University - School of Economics and Management

Xiaoran Ni

Xiamen University - School of Economics; Xiamen University - Wang Yanan Institute for Studies in Economics (WISE)

P. Eric Yeung

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

David Yin

Miami University of Ohio

Date Written: March 05, 2025

Abstract

Blockholding multiple firms within an industry generates an information advantage for institutional investors, who can better differentiate between the industry-wide and firm-specific nature of bad news released by peer firms and avoid selling on false spillover signals (i.e., “smart exit”). Empirically, we document that industry common ownership reduces future firm-level stock price crash risk. Our results can be explained by the attenuated spillover from industry peers’ firm-specific bad news, as a complement to the monitoring effect that reduces the focal firm’s hoarding of bad news. Our results suggest that the presence of industry common owners provides a stabilizing effect against stock price contagion.

Keywords: Institutional investor, Blockholder, Common ownership, Stock price crash risk, Contagion

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Li, Qingyuan and Ni, Xiaoran and Yeung, P. Eric and Yin, David, The Information Advantage of Industry Common Owners and Its Stabilizing Effect on Stock Price Crash Risk (March 05, 2025). Journal of Corporate Finance, 2025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3871539 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3871539
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
Wall Street Walk" and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 7 , p. 2445 - 2485 Posted: 2009
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 1 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
H An , T Zhang
Stock price synchronicity, crash risk, and institutional investors
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 21 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2013
Load more
1 Citations
Tianli Xu , Longbing Xu , Siyuan Zhu
Common ownership and executive pay-for-performance sensitivity: Evidence from China
Research in International Business and Finance , volume 65 , p. 101947 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
683
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,186
RANK
87,334
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies