Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Penny-Wise and Pound-Foolish: Does Striving to Meet Earnings Expectations by Manipulating Real Activities Trigger Product Recalls?

Management Science, Forthcoming

68 Pages Posted: 6 Jul 2021 Last revised: 20 Sep 2023

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Lijun Ma

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE)

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Xin Yang

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: September 19, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether managers’ activities in striving to reach earnings targets through real earnings manipulation affect their firms’ product recalls. Our evidence implies that firms suspected of manipulating real activities in trying to meet earnings benchmarks exhibit a higher likelihood and frequency of product recalls. In cross-sectional results consistent with expectations, we find that the impact of exploiting real activities to attain earnings benchmarks on product recalls intensifies for firms whose managers have stronger incentives to manage earnings and subsides for firms subject to greater customer power and firms with more growth opportunities. Additional analysis shows that lowering product quality to meet-or-beat earnings expectations undermines firms’ future performance.

Keywords: Product recalls, product quality, earnings expectations, real activities management

JEL Classification: G10, L15, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yangyang and Ma, Lijun and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Yang, Xin, Penny-Wise and Pound-Foolish: Does Striving to Meet Earnings Expectations by Manipulating Real Activities Trigger Product Recalls? (September 19, 2023). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3871509
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
B Al-Shattarat , K Hussainey , W Al-Shattarat
The impact of abnormal real earnings management to meet earnings benchmarks on future operating performance
International Rev. Financial Anal , volume 81 Posted: 2022
C Anderson , C Zeithaml
Stage of the product life cycle, business strategy, and business performance
Acad. Management J , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 24 Posted: 1984
A M Arikan , R M Stulz
Corporate acquisitions, diversification, and the firm's life cycle
J. Finance , volume 71 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 194 Posted: 2016
C Armstrong , K Balakrishnan , D Cohen
Corporate governance and the information environment: evidence from state antitakeover laws
J. Accounting Econom , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 185 - 204 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,519
RANK
261,368
1 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies