Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
External Sharī‘Ah Audit and Review Committee Vis-a-Vis Sharī‘Ah Compliance Quality and Accountability: A Case of Islamic Banks in Bangladesh

Alam, K., Ahmad, A.U.F., and Muneezah, A. (2020). External Sharī‘ah audit and review committee vis-a-vis Sharī‘ah compliance quality and accountability: a case of Islamic banks in Bangladesh, Journal of Public Affairs (JPA), (ESCI, SCOPUS Q3, ABDC B ranked). Early view, 1-10. John Wiley & Sons L

Posted: 7 Oct 2021 Last revised: 6 Sep 2023

Abu Umar Faruq Ahmad

United International University; Islamic Economics Institute; Universiti Brunei Darussalam; INCEIF University; Hamdan Bin Mohammed Smart University; Islamic Cooperative Finance Australia Ltd; Guidance College; Institute of Policy Studies, Universiti Brunei Darussalam; International Shariah Research Academy for Islamic Finance

A. Muneezah

Independent

Date Written: September 2, 2020

Abstract

External Sharī‘ah Audit (ESA) is a control mechanism meant for formulating an objective view by an independent Sharī‘ah audit team about the obligation of Islamic banks' (IBs) management, personnel and other divisions towards Sharī‘ah compliance. This study principally aims to examine the relevancy of ESA and review committee in enhancing the level of Sharī‘ah compliance quality and accountability of IBs in Bangladesh. The study examines data from 17 respondents obtained via semi-structured interviews and secondary sources in library. This study establishes that Sharī‘ah officers of IBs in Bangladesh are unable to perform audit functions properly which indicates the limitations of current Sharī‘ah audit functions. The study discovers the need for an independent ESA for proper auditing of IBs' operations in Bangladesh with a view to Sharī‘ah compliance. Thus, an ESA and review committee is imperative to enhance the quality of Sharī‘ah compliance and ensure accountability of all divisions within IBs. This audit is to be provided either by Bangladesh Bank (BB), the central bank of the country or a third party such as Islamic chartered accountants' firms or Sharī‘ah audit firms. The study would contribute to existing literature on the importance of ESA and its conditions in Bangladesh. The study also provides some instructions for global Islamic banking practice on the issues examined. The study contributes to agency, stakeholder and legitimacy theory via highlighting the inability of Sharī‘ah auditors to perform their function independently and efficiently.

JEL Classification: A19

Suggested Citation:

Ahmad, Prof Abu Umar Faruq and Muneezah, A., External Sharī‘Ah Audit and Review Committee Vis-a-Vis Sharī‘Ah Compliance Quality and Accountability: A Case of Islamic Banks in Bangladesh (September 2, 2020). Alam, K., Ahmad, A.U.F., and Muneezah, A. (2020). External Sharī‘ah audit and review committee vis-a-vis Sharī‘ah compliance quality and accountability: a case of Islamic banks in Bangladesh, Journal of Public Affairs (JPA), (ESCI, SCOPUS Q3, ABDC B ranked). Early view, 1-10. John Wiley & Sons L, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3871641
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
282
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Islamic Law & Law of the Muslim World eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies