Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Control Intensity, Corporate Financial Performance and Revenue Growth since the Global Financial Crisis

El Beshlawy, H., & Ardroumli, S. (2021). Ownership control intensity, corporate financial performance and revenue growth since the global financial crisis [Special issue]. Corporate Ownership & Control, 10(3), 275–295.

21 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2021

Hany El Beshlawy

Case Western Reserve University

Sinan Ardroumli

Case Western Reserve University

Date Written: June 03, 2021

Abstract

The 2008 global financial crisis showed that despite the corporate governance scholars and regulatory efforts of the past 30 years, shareholders‘ investments remain at risk due to poor or dishonest decisions made by some distinct groups of corporate stockholders. Using structural equation modeling (SEM), this study investigated the influence of ownership control on 222 public US companies‘ performance after the 2008 financial crisis. The authors identify a new construct representing a third dimension (control intensity) of ownership structure, whereas previous literature has identified only two dimensions: identity and concentration. The control intensity construct of managerial ownership was measured using the number of manager-owners among individual shareholders instead of using the traditional ownership concentration measurement method. The study indicates that the higher the individual ownership stake and the lower managerial ownership control intensity are in an organization, the stronger the negative influence of individual ownership on corporate performance and growth.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Ownership Structure, Ownership Type, Ownership Control, Ownership Identity, Financial Performance, Revenue Growth

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

El Beshlawy, Hany and Ardroumli, Sinan, Ownership Control Intensity, Corporate Financial Performance and Revenue Growth since the Global Financial Crisis (June 03, 2021). El Beshlawy, H., & Ardroumli, S. (2021). Ownership control intensity, corporate financial performance and revenue growth since the global financial crisis [Special issue]. Corporate Ownership & Control, 10(3), 275–295. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3872036
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
602
RANK
833,930
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies