Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Diffusion of Balanced Scorecard from the Perspective of Adopters: Evidence from Australia

Review of Economics and Finance, 14 (4), 71-82.

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper

12 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2021

Davood Askarany

University of Auckland Business School

Hassan Yazdifar

University of Salford - Salford Business School

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to explore the shortcomings of the Balanced Scorecard (BSC) as a performance measurement tool, and to examine the extent of association between its diffusion and the characteristics of its adopters in practice.

This study uses a survey approach and targets registered members of Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) in Australia. The results show that ignoring the risks, environmental and sustainability factors as well as neglecting the concerns/rights of relevant stakeholders are the key shortcomings of the BSC in practice. The findings further confirm that it is vital to distinguish between the diffusion of the BSC as a practice (one single tool) and as a process (a chain of different activities). Because some attributes of adopters are only associated with the initial decisions to adopt (or not) the BSC (as a practice) but not with the sequential implementation stages of its adoption (as a process) and vice versa.

Keywords: Balanced Scorecard, Sustainability, Risk, Stakeholders’ rights, Performance measurement, Diffusion of innovation

JEL Classification: L10, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Askarany, Davood and Yazdifar, Hassan, The Diffusion of Balanced Scorecard from the Perspective of Adopters: Evidence from Australia (2018). Review of Economics and Finance, 14 (4), 71-82., The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3872148
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
466
RANK
772,295
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies