Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Flipping the Coin: Are Spacs Post-Merger Value-Creating or Value-Destroying? An Empirical Study on the Value Effects of Special Purpose Acquisition Companies in the United States

61 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2021

Koen Bodewes

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR), Rotterdam School of Management (RSM)

Date Written: June 10, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the merger announcement and post-announcement value effects of special purpose acquisition company (“SPAC”) transactions in the United States from January 2010 up to March 2021. It finds positive cumulative abnormal merger announcement returns (“CARs”) and negative long-term buy-and-hold abnormal returns (“BHARs”) post-announcement - consistent with previous research. The short-term effect is considerably larger (10.50%) for post-COVID SPACs, with faster deals, fewer redemptions, and more frequent PIPE involvement during bull markets with high market volatility and a low cost of debt. The BHARs are on average positive up until 15 months after merger announcement and negative afterwards. This study shows the effect of long-term performance is influenced by several SPAC characteristics. Firstly, the post-merger performance is better for SPACs with management with C-suite operational experience. Surprisingly though, prior experience of managers with SPAC transactions is not indicative of future results, as serial sponsors consistently underperform first-time sponsors. Secondly, SPAC deals with a higher proportion of PIPE financing show superior long-term performance, due to external deal validation leading to fewer redemptions. This study contributes to the limited existing literature on the post-merger effects of SPACs, by introducing new explanatory variables, performing multivariate regressions, and incorporating post-COVID SPAC mergers, leading to larger sample sizes. Given recent SPAC popularity, my findings have important implications for U.S. public market investors, corporate finance advisors, regulators and early-stage companies considering merging with a SPAC.

Keywords: Special purpose acquisition company, SPAC, Blank Check Company, Mergers & Acquisitions, Post-merger performance

JEL Classification: G30, G24, G34

Suggested Citation:

Bodewes, Koen, Flipping the Coin: Are Spacs Post-Merger Value-Creating or Value-Destroying? An Empirical Study on the Value Effects of Special Purpose Acquisition Companies in the United States (June 10, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3872422 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3872422
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
; Vulanovic , Edgar , Crsp Bloomberg , Morgan Edgar , Ellenoff Joseph Triartisan , Grossman , Schole
Capital IQ US 236 (IPOs) 2003 -2015 BHAR Market-adjusted and FF 5-factor model Russell Posted: 2000
L Dimitrova , Edgar , Crsp Bloomberg , Platinum
Posted: 2017
F Kuiters
EDGAR, Bloomberg, ThomsonOne(T1) US 118 (deals) , p. 2003 - 2018 Posted: 2019
CARs S&P , volume 500
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
798
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,348
RANK
71,261
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies