Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Financial Reporting And The Cost Of Capital In BRICS Countries

Higher School of Economics Research Paper No. WP BRP 83/FE/2021

28 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2021 Last revised: 25 Jun 2021

Mariia Evdokimova

National Research University Higher School of Economics (Moscow)

Sergey Kuzubov

National Research University Higher School of Economics (Moscow)

Date Written: June 23, 2021

Abstract

This paper considers the impact of non-financial reporting (NFR) on the cost of capital (COC) in the forms of the cost of equity (COE), the cost of debt (COD), and the weighted average cost of equity (WACC). It was revealed that companies publishing non-financial reports have a lower COC. COD, COE, and WACC reduce after NFR. Six industries, where the cost of equity and debt capital is lower for companies publishing NFR, were determined: consumer discretionary, energy, industrials, information technology, healthcare, and materials. According to the analysis, companies that issued non-financial reports have a lower COE capital growth rate.

Keywords: non-financial reporting, CSR, cost of capital, BRICS countries

JEL Classification: G32, M40

Suggested Citation:

Evdokimova, Mariia and Kuzubov, Sergey, Non-Financial Reporting And The Cost Of Capital In BRICS Countries (June 23, 2021). Higher School of Economics Research Paper No. WP BRP 83/FE/2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3872502 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3872502
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
269
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,270
RANK
260,398
5 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies