Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Minority Shareholder Protection and Atomization of Shareholder Base on the Nonoperating Activities of Firms

35 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2021

Dmytro Osiichuk

Kozminski University

Pawel Wnuczak

Kozminski University

Date Written: June 23, 2021

Abstract

In the presence of strong minority shareholder protection mechanisms, shareholders may become placid and even inattentive with regards to their firms’ nonoperating activities in the hope that those mechanisms serve to assure agents’ incentive compatibility. Relying on a cross-country panel database, the paper evidences that a stronger minority shareholder protection at the country level is associated with larger firm-level long-term nonoperating investments, higher share of nonoperating investment incomes in the firms’ bottom line, and relatively larger acquisitions. At the company level, the implementation of stronger minority shareholder protection mechanisms, like internal policies favoring shareholder engagement and equality of voting rights, is documented to result in higher reliance on nonoperating incomes, larger acquisitions, higher cash reserves and lower dividend payouts. At the same time, the atomization of shareholder base appears to reduce the effectiveness of nonoperating activities as the firms with a larger shareholder base tend to hold more long-term investments while concomitantly recording lower investment incomes. In contrast, higher shareholder diversification is shown to be associated with lower cash holdings and higher dividend payouts. Overall, while being attentive to cash management and dividend policies, minority shareholders seem to be excessively forbearing with regards to the use of the bulk of nonoperating assets.

Keywords: nonoperating assets, minority shareholder rights, acquisitions, payout policy

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Osiichuk, Dmytro and Wnuczak, Pawel, The Impact of Minority Shareholder Protection and Atomization of Shareholder Base on the Nonoperating Activities of Firms (June 23, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3872957 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3872957
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
992
RANK
413,842
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies