Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Whistleblowing Bounties and Informational Effects

Forthcoming at Journal of Accounting & Economics

64 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2021 Last revised: 31 May 2023

Lin Nan

Purdue University

Chao Tang

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Gaoqing Zhang

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

Date Written: June 24, 2021

Abstract

We examine the impact of increasing whistleblowing bounties on whistleblowers' strategy and regulatory efficiency in detecting fraud. Our analysis shows that the regulator extracts information about the incidence of fraud from whistleblowers' actions, and the quality of such information depends on the size of whistleblowing bounties. With a larger bounty, upon receiving a whistleblowing report, the quality of the regulator's information about fraud deteriorates, whereas upon observing no whistleblowing, the information quality about no fraud improves. Although the informational improvement upon no whistleblowing has not been widely discussed, we demonstrate that it is a key determinant of the optimal whistleblowing program. Our results indicate that, considering the informational value of whistleblowing and no whistleblowing, the regulator should set the bounty to encourage more whistleblowing when the prior belief of fraud is strong and when the insider is better informed. Our analysis generates both policy and empirical implications for designing and studying whistleblowing programs.

Keywords: Whistleblowing, Regulatory Enforcement, Fraud Detection,

Suggested Citation:

Nan, Lin and Tang, Chao and Zhang, Gaoqing, Whistleblowing Bounties and Informational Effects (June 24, 2021). Forthcoming at Journal of Accounting & Economics , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3873117 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3873117
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
T Baldenius , X Meng , L Qiu
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2019
P G Berger , H Lee
Did the Dodd-Frank Whistleblower Provision Deter Accounting Fraud
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 1337 - 1378 Posted: 2022
M S Beasley
An empirical analysis of the relation between the board of director composition and …nancial statement fraud
The Accounting Review , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
T Blackburne , J D Kepler , P J Quinn , D Taylor
Undisclosed SEC investigations
Management Science , volume 67 , issue 6 , p. 3403 - 3418 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
297
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,306
RANK
234,143
2 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies