Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Non Performing Loan (NPL): A Case of an Emerging Economy

Al Masud, A. & Hossain, M. A., (2020). ‘Determinants of Non Performing Loan (NPL): A Case of an Emerging Economy’, Southeast Business Review, Vol. X, No. 1 & 2, 46-60

22 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2021

Abdullah Al Masud

Southeast University, Dhaka, Bangladesh

Mohammad Azhar Hossain

Southeast University (Bangladesh) - School of Business Studies

Date Written: March 16, 2021

Abstract

Commercial banks are the most influential element in the financial market of a country. But commercial banks get pegged back when their main income-generating asset i.e. loans and advances become non-performing. Based on a sample of 22 conventional private commercial banks with 10 years’ data, this study looked at bank-specific and macroeconomic determinants of non-performing loans (NPLs) using Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) analysis. Among the bank-specific variables such ROA, size, loan-to-deposit ratio, credit growth, and board independence, only ROA, a proxy for managerial efficiency, was found to have significantly negative relationship with NPLs. Among the macroeconomic variables, GDP growth rate, inflation, real interest rate, unemployment, and stock prices were found to have a significantly positive relationship with NPL. The study suggests that banks should focus more on improving managerial efficiency and supervision to improve their loan quality. In addition, regulators have a role to perform regular stress tests on the banks to check banks’ asset quality against macroeconomic shocks.

Keywords: NPL, Banks, bank-specific, macroeconomic, GMM

JEL Classification: G21, G32, G33

Suggested Citation:

Al Masud, Abdullah and Hossain, Mohammad Azhar, Determinants of Non Performing Loan (NPL): A Case of an Emerging Economy (March 16, 2021). Al Masud, A. & Hossain, M. A., (2020). ‘Determinants of Non Performing Loan (NPL): A Case of an Emerging Economy’, Southeast Business Review, Vol. X, No. 1 & 2, 46-60, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3873654
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
M Arellano , S Bond
Some tests of specification for panel data: Monte Carlo evidence and an application to employment equations. The review of economic studies , volume 58 , p. 277 - 297 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Bangladesh Bank
Banking Sector Performance, Regulation and Bank Supervision Posted: 2017-11
L Barseghyan
Non-performing loans, prospective bailouts, and Japan's slowdown
Journal of Monetary economics , volume 57 , issue 7 , p. 873 - 890 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Beck , P Jakubik , A Piloui
Non-performing Loans What Matters in Addition to the Economic Cycle?
European Central Bank Working Paper Series Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
702
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,403
RANK
84,484
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Monetary Economics: Financial System & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies