Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Performance Analysis of Post-Merger and Acquisition

International Journal of Business and Administration Research Review, Vol. 1,Issue.1, Jan-March,2016

5 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2021

Prof. Jeelan Basha.V

Vijayanagar Sri Krishnadevaraya University Ballari

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

Mergers and acquisition are important corporate strategy actions that aid the firm in external growth and provide it competitive advantage. In todays globalized economy, mergers and acquisition are being increasingly used the world over, for improving competitiveness of companies through gaining greater market share, broadening the portfolio to reduce business risk, for entering new market and geographic, and capitalizing on economies of scale etc. The corporate sector all over the world is restructuring its operations through mergers and acquisitions in an unprecedented manner in order to successfully overcome the challenges posed by turbulence caused in the world relating to business cycles. This study has focused on the financial performance of Merger and Acquisition of ICICI Bank.The main objectives of the study are to evaluate financial performance of post- acquisition of ICICI bank from Bank of Rajasthan using Investment Ratios,Management Efficiency Ratios, Debt Coverage Ratios, Leverage Ratios,Profitability Ratiosand Profit And Loss Account Ratios and to provide findings based on analysis. In view of the objectives of the study, exploratory research design has been adopted. The study is based on secondary data covering ten years annual data of pre-merger and post-merger period.Data have been collected from official websites of money control.com, and various other reports like magazines, journals, published books are also referred to for the present study.The statistical tools applied for data analysis is descriptive and inferential statistics. Based on the objectives, the hypotheses formed for analysis have been tested on the financial performance of M&A of ICICI bank by considering pre and post M&A financial ratios. To sum up, post-merger profitability has increased not from effective utilisation of assets and loans but reduction of operating expenses and increase in non-interest income. Primary business of accepting deposits and lending of the same is indispensible for survival and sustenance of the banks. Hence, it is focussing its business from aggressive policy to conservative policy of lending.

Suggested Citation:

Basha.V, Jeelan, Financial Performance Analysis of Post-Merger and Acquisition (2016). International Journal of Business and Administration Research Review, Vol. 1,Issue.1, Jan-March,2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3874819
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
600
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,658
RANK
103,177
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies