Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental management control systems and environmental innovation: Unintended consequences of the EU non-financial reporting directive

Management Accounting Research, forthcoming


62 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2021 Last revised: 10 Apr 2024

Carla Antonini

Universidad Autónoma de Madrid

Jacobo Gomez-Conde

Universidad Autónoma de Madrid - Accounting Department

Date Written: May 28, 2024

Abstract

We examine the effect of regulatory-driven environmental management control systems (EMCS) on environmental innovation by exploiting the non-financial reporting Directive 2014/95/EU as a quasi-natural experiment. One explicit aim of this directive is to improve the measuring, monitoring, and managing of undertakings’ performance and their impact on society. A regulated context may compel managers to prioritize external regulatory requirements over their specific organizational contingencies. This shift could lead to a decrease in flexibility, which is needed to effectively accelerate environmental innovation, arguably one of the corporate flagships for enhancing environmental performance. We perform a difference-in-differences design using the EU directive as a plausible exogenous shock to EMCS and environmental innovation. Our results suggest that: (i) the directive under study increases the adoption of EMCS, (ii) non-regulated EMCS foster environmental innovation and, even more importantly, (iii) regulatory-driven EMCS have a short-term (temporary) lessening effect on environmental innovation. In further analysis we find that this lessening effect reverses from t+1 onwards, once internal frictions are overcome, with the effect being positive in the long run.

Keywords: Environmental management control systems, Directive 2014/95/EU, Environmental innovation, Non-financial reporting

JEL Classification: M40; M41; Q56

Suggested Citation:

Antonini, Carla and Gomez-Conde, Jacobo, Environmental management control systems and environmental innovation: Unintended consequences of the EU non-financial reporting directive (May 28, 2024). Management Accounting Research, forthcoming
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3874896 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3874896
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
612
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,392
RANK
100,600
126 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies