Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Financial Leverage on Corporate Financial Performance of Dangote Cement PLC (2010-2021)

22 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2022

Uchechi Great Ibe

Ignatius Ajuru University of Education

Wonders Ebimotimimowei Pibowei

Ignatius Ajuru University of Education; Renaissance University Enugu

Date Written: July 18, 2022

Abstract

The purpose of the study is to investigate the effect of financial leverage on the corporate financial performance of Dangote Cement Plc (2010-2021). An expo-facto research design with four objectives and one baseline theory anchored this empirical paper. The study covered a population of seventeen years from 2010 to 2021, and a sample size of ten years covering from 2010 to 2019, using an interval scale of measurement and preceding year basis of sampling. The study used secondary data, obtained from the published annual financial reports of Dangote Cement Plc. The study adopted univariate analysis, bivariate analysis, and ordinary least square (OLS) model for data analysis with MS Excel 2019 and SPSS Statistics 20. The study found that there is a significant relationship between retained earnings ratio and return on assets, no significant relationship between retained earnings ratio and return on equity, no significant relationship between equity multiplier ratio and return on assets, and no significant relationship between equity multiplier ratio and return on equity of Dangote Cement Plc. The study concluded that keeping a lower retained earnings ratio might affect the liquid balance of the factory and increase the cost of financing operations & engineering; and that keeping a higher equity multiplier ratio will force the company to adopt a debt refinancing policy, instead of a turnover growth policy, which negatively affects their financial performance. The study recommended that: Dangote Cement Plc should maintain high retained earnings and a lower equity multiplier so as to improve its annual returns, based on its financial leverage policy.

Keywords: financial leverage, retained earnings, equity multiplier, financial performance, return on assets, return on equity, earnings per share

Suggested Citation:

Ibe, Uchechi Great and Pibowei, Wonders Ebimotimimowei, The Effect of Financial Leverage on Corporate Financial Performance of Dangote Cement PLC (2010-2021) (July 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3874639 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3874639
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
A Abdullah , D G Anupam
The effect of leverage on shareholders' return: an empirical study on some selected listed companies in Bangladesh
European journal of business and management , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 56 - 71 Posted: 2013
P A Abolo , E Thankgod , B Nwankwo
Effect of capital structure on profitability of the firm -a study of selected insurance firms in Port-Harcourt
IAUE Journal of Accounting and Business , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 37 - 54 Posted: 2016
F Ahmed , I Awais , M Kashif
Financial Leverage and firms' performance: empirical evidence from kse-100
Journal ekonomi , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 56 Posted: 2018
G A N Ama
Advanced financial accounting & reporting standards Posted: 2015
Load more
1 Citations
Abdulhamid Jibrin , Sadiq Usman Abubakar , Bala Abubakar
Effect of Long-Term Debt on Financial Performance of Cement Manufacturing Companies
African Journal of Management and Business Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 69 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
391
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,325
RANK
172,978
1 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies