Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Signaling the Adoption of the Benefit Corporation Model: A Step towards Transparency

Sustainability (MDPI) 2021

16 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2021

Davide Galli

Catholic University of Milan

Riccardo Torelli

Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Department of Economic and Social Sciences

Veronica Tibiletti

University of Parma

Date Written: June 21, 2021

Abstract

Using the signaling theory as a reference, this research conducts an in-depth analysis of the adoption of the benefit corporation model, a legal and governance framework introduced into Italian regulations in 2016 following legislation introduced by many US states between 2010 and 2013. Focusing on the experience of Italian benefit corporations, we explore how these businesses manage their signaling environment (signaler, signal, receiver, and feedback) to obtain greater transparency. The analysis focuses on companies’ bylaws, websites, and non-financial reports and suggests that the adoption of this new hybrid business model will only translate into an opportunity for greater transparency for one in four benefit corporations. The ability to strengthen the effects of adopting this model, adequate resources, and a long-term approach are required. The model, therefore, appears to present an opportunity for larger companies that have already invested adequately in the development of communication (web) and reporting (report) tools. The results seem to suggest that, on the contrary, for small companies with less experience, transformation into a benefit corporation may generate a risk of ambiguity.

Keywords: signaling theory, benefit corporation, transparency, impact reporting

Suggested Citation:

Galli, Davide and Torelli, Riccardo and Tibiletti, Veronica, Signaling the Adoption of the Benefit Corporation Model: A Step towards Transparency (June 21, 2021). Sustainability (MDPI) 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3875331
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
J S Hiller
The benefit corporation and corporate social responsibility
J. Bus. Ethics , volume 118 , p. 287 - 301 Posted: 2013
Crossref
H Rawhouser , M Cummings , A Crane
Benefit Corporation Legislation and the Emergence of a Social Hybrid Category
Calif. Manag. Rev , volume 57 , p. 13 - 35 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R André
Assessing the Accountability of the Benefit Corporation: Will This New Gray Sector Organization Enhance Corporate Social Responsibility?
J. Bus. Ethics , volume 110 , p. 133 - 150 Posted: 2012
Crossref
F Caputo , R Leopizzi , S Pizzi , V Milone
The Non-Financial Reporting Harmonization in Europe: Evolutionary Pathways
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
481
RANK
889,053
1 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies