Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Earnings Management Using Loan Loss Provisions: Comparing the UK, France, South Africa and Egypt

Journal of Economic and Administrative Sciences 2021

17 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2021

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: June 28, 2021

Abstract

This paper investigates bank earnings management using loan loss provision (LLP). The paper examines income smoothing which is a type of earnings management. It compares the income smoothing behaviour of banks in the UK, France, South Africa and Egypt. The findings show that bank income smoothing is present in the UK and Egypt, and absent in France and South Africa during the period examined. Banks in Egypt used LLPs to smooth income before the global financial crisis. Meanwhile, bank income smoothing is pronounced in France during and after the financial crisis but is absent in the pre-crisis period. Also, bank income smoothing is reduced in countries that (i) have strict banking supervision, (ii) adopt common law such as the United Kingdom, and (iii) adopt civil law such as France and Egypt. Bank earnings management is also greater in countries that adopt a mixed legal system such as South Africa, and in countries that adopt IFRS accounting standards.

Keywords: Banks, Earnings Management, Loan Loss Provisions, Income Smoothing, United Kingdom, France, Egypt, South Africa

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Bank Earnings Management Using Loan Loss Provisions: Comparing the UK, France, South Africa and Egypt (June 28, 2021). Journal of Economic and Administrative Sciences 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3875404 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3875404
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
A A Adzis , D W Tripe , P Dunmore
IAS 39, income smoothing, and pro-cyclicality: evidence from Hong Kong banks
Journal of Financial Economic Policy , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 80 - 94 Posted: 2016
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: a reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
K Andries , J Gallemore , M Jacob
The effect of corporate taxation on bank transparency: Evidence from loan loss provisions
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 63 , issue 2-3 , p. 307 - 328 Posted: 2017
Crossref
J R Barth , G Caprio , R Levine
Bank regulation and supervision in 180 countries from 1999 to 2011
Journal of Financial Economic Policy , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 219 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
907
RANK
357,435
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies