Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance in Systems Based on Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT): A Comparative Study

De Nederlandsche Bank Working Paper No. 718

51 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2021

Ellen Naudts

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Timothy Aerts

Autoriteit Financiële Markten (AFM)

leonard franken

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Aimo Pieterse

Autoriteit Financiële Markten (AFM)

Date Written: June 28, 2021

Abstract

The (experimental) use of DLT is growing, also in the financial sector. DLT systems themselves advocate the fact that they use (consensus) algorithms and cryptography to create a leaderless system (horizontal). How is it possible to ensure that decisions in these DLT systems are in the interest of all stakeholders and the public interest, including supervisory authorities? Given the popularity of the Bitcoin and Ethereum blockchains, for example, it is not inconceivable that a part of the FMI will be based on a public DLT system in the future. It is therefore important to gain a better understanding of the governance of such DLT systems, and what the risks are for FIs when using DLT. This paper compares the governance of financial institutions (FIs) and financial market infrastructures (FMIs) on the one hand with the governance of systems based on distributed ledger technology (DLT systems), on the other, to discover how they differ, and where potential risks and benefits lie for their future use, also in the financial markets. We answer two questions: i) What are the differences in governance between traditional FIs, FMIs and DLT systems? and ii) What are the consequences of decentralized governance of DLT systems for supervisory authorities?

Keywords: Comparative study of governance in DLT systems, Managerial and operational governance, Horizontal and vertical governance, tipping point, Public DLT Systems and Private DLT Systems

JEL Classification: G3, M15, M4

Suggested Citation:

Naudts, Ellen and Aerts, Timothy and franken, leonard and Pieterse, Aimo, Governance in Systems Based on Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT): A Comparative Study (June 28, 2021). De Nederlandsche Bank Working Paper No. 718, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3876116 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3876116
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Accenture
Governing DLT Networks Posted: 2019
Crossref
Autoriteit Financiële Markten
General Guidance for national payment system development
IOSCO publiceert rapporten over standaarden financiële marktinfrastructuren Posted: 2006
Principles for financial market infrastructures Posted: 2012
M Becze , H Jameson
EIP-1: EIP Purpose and Guidelines, Ethereum Improvement Proposals Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,017
RANK
276,216
2 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies