Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IPO-Audit Expertise, Audit Quality, and Capital Allocation Efficiency: Evidence from China

51 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2021

Donghui Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Zhifeng Yang

State University of New York (SUNY), Stony Brook

Feiteng Ye

Shanghai Lixin University of Commerce

Date Written: June 1, 2021

Abstract

Backed by China's economic growth, the initial public offering (IPO) market in China has been one of the most vigorous in the world. In this market, practicing auditors routinely sit on the regulatory committee responsible for screening prospective IPO firms. Against this backdrop, we examine whether IPO-audit expertise can influence IPO-audit quality and capital allocation. We find that auditors with richer IPO-audit experience improve the quality of earnings in IPO prospectus, earn an audit fee premium, and are significantly more likely to be assigned to IPO engagements by audit firms or appointed to the regulatory committee by regulators. We also show that, by enhancing the credibility of information disclosure in IPO prospectus, IPO exper-tise of the regulatory committee members and the IPO engagement auditors improves capital allocation efficiency. Collectively, our evidence implies that a more sophisticated audit profes-sion can contribute to the development of capital market in a country.

Keywords: Auditor specialization; IPO audits; capital allocation efficiency

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Donghui and Yang, Zhifeng and Ye, Feiteng, IPO-Audit Expertise, Audit Quality, and Capital Allocation Efficiency: Evidence from China (June 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3876506 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3876506
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
J Aharony , C.-W Lee , T J Wong
Financial packaging of IPO firms in China
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 2000
Crossref
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple Regression: Testing and Interpreting Interactions. Sage. Newbury Park Posted: 1991
W R Baber , L Liang , Z Zhu
Associations between internal and external corporate governance characteristics: Implications for investigating financial accounting restatements
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 219 - 237 Posted: 2012
Crossref
G S Bae , S U Choi , D S Dhaliwal , P T Lamoreaux
Auditors and client investment efficiency
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 19 - 40 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
539
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,360
RANK
118,293
1 Citations
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies