Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Disciplinary Effect of Social Media: Evidence from Firms' Responses to Glassdoor Reviews

58 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2021

Svenja Dube

City University of NY, Baruch College, Zicklin School of Business

Chenqi Zhu

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 29, 2021

Abstract

We examine how firms respond to the increased workplace transparency due to the coverage on Glassdoor.com, which collects and disseminates reviews on employee satisfaction. Leveraging the staggered timing of first-time reviews on Glassdoor, we use a difference-in-differences design and find that after being reviewed on Glassdoor, firms improve their workplace practices, measured by corporate social responsibility scores on employee relations and diversity. Consistent with firms improving their workplace practices to remain competitive in the labor market, we find that such improvement concentrates in firms with negative initial reviews and with high labor intensity. We also find firms increase disclosures about workplace practices after being reviewed and the increase concentrates in firms with high institutional ownership, consistent with firms providing more disclosures to appease investors. Overall, our findings suggest that the increased workplace transparency through social media has a disciplinary effect on corporate policies.

Keywords: Social media, real effect, workplace practices, CSR disclosure

JEL Classification: M41, M14, J28, L86, J50

Suggested Citation:

Dube, Svenja and Zhu, Chenqi, The Disciplinary Effect of Social Media: Evidence from Firms' Responses to Glassdoor Reviews (June 29, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3877022 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3877022
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
B Westfall
How job seekers use glassdoor reviews. Software Advice Posted: 2017
L Widdicombe
Improving workplace culture, one review at a time Posted: 2018
R Winkler , A Fuller
How companies secretly boost their Glassdoor ratings
The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2019
S X Xu , X Zhang
Impact of Wikipedia on market information environment: Evidence on management disclosure and investor reaction
MIS Quarterly , p. 1043 - 1068 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
53 Citations
Sandra G. Schafhäutle , David Veenman
Crowdsourced Forecasts and the Market Reaction to Earnings Announcement News
59 Pages · Posted: 4 Sep 2019 · Last revised: 8 Aug 2023 · Downloads: 838
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Siew Hong Teoh , Yuqing Zhou , Christos Makridis
Understanding Reputation Damage to Firm Culture: Insights from Employee Perceptions Post Financial Misconduct
53 Pages · Posted: 18 Oct 2019 · Last revised: 3 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 696
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Michelle Hutchens , Dan Lynch , Bridget Stomberg
Sharing the Wealth: The Effects of TCJA Bonuses on Employee Pay Sentiment
50 Pages · Posted: 21 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 24 Jun 2022 · Downloads: 397
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Michelle Hutchens , Stefan Richter , Bridget Stomberg , Brian Williams
Using Disclosure of the Work Opportunity Tax Credit as an Indicator of Prosocial Employment Practices
Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2021-28 · 53 Pages · Posted: 23 May 2021 · Last revised: 23 May 2023 · Downloads: 288
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
865
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,520
RANK
64,211
53 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies