Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hiding or Helping? Determinants and Consequences of the Timing of Earnings Conference Calls

Fox School of Business Research Paper Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2021

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Zhongnan Xiang

University of Warwick, Warwick Business School

Date Written: June 30, 2021

Abstract

Open conference calls reveal important information because of their forward-looking discussion, interactive nature, and easy accessibility. Using Bloomberg data, we investigate why firms hold earnings conference calls at different times of the day and how the stock market interprets and reacts to firms’ timing choices. We measure retrospective and prospective news in earnings calls using earnings surprises and the tone of forward-looking statements. We find that firms with more extreme news (both good and bad) tend to hold calls outside trading hours, especially in the evening. To test whether the market understands the information embedded in call “timing,” we conduct an event study around the date when firms schedule the calls. We find higher trading volume when the market is notified of an upcoming switch from trading hours to outside them. Our results suggest that firms strategically time conference calls and that investors infer some information from their timing switches.

Keywords: Information asymmetry, litigation risk, market liquidity

JEL Classification: G14, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Sudipta and Xiang, Zhongnan, Hiding or Helping? Determinants and Consequences of the Timing of Earnings Conference Calls (June 30, 2021). Fox School of Business Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3877488 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3877488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
311
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,297
RANK
222,795
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies