Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Individual-Pair Lending Relationships

Review of Accounting Studies Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2021 Last revised: 22 Nov 2024

Omri Even-Tov

Haas School of Business - UC Berkeley

Xinlei Li

University of California, Davis

Hui Wang

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Christopher D. Williams

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Date Written: June 30, 2021

Abstract

In this paper, we examine the significance and uniqueness of individual-pair relationships cultivated through repeated loan interactions. Using a hand-collected dataset compiled of borrowing manager and loan officer information, we find that individual-pair relationship loans are associated with a cost-of-debt reduction of between 7-13 basis points. We also document that the relationship has an economic impact even when other affiliations, e.g., institutional pairs, social ties, cultural proximity, and gender, are considered. Individual-pair relationships matter because they furnish lenders with useful soft information, especially when the firm has a poor hard information environment or when the bank and loan officer rely less on hard information. In addition, we find that individual-pair relationship loans have fewer rating downgrades, suggesting that accumulated soft information leads to better loan quality. Collectively, our results highlight the unique value of sustained professional engagement between two individuals in the lending process.

Keywords: Individual-pair lending relationships, Asymmetric information, Soft information, Professional connections, Bank lending, Debt contracting, Cost of debt

JEL Classification: G21, G30, D23, D82, J24

Suggested Citation:

Even-Tov, Omri and Li, Xinlei and Wang, Hui and Williams, Christopher D., The Importance of Individual-Pair Lending Relationships (June 30, 2021). Review of Accounting Studies Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3877687 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3877687
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
342
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,332
RANK
200,848
3 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies