Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Compensation: Evidence From the Field

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 771/2021

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming

80 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2021 Last revised: 13 Oct 2023

Alex Edmans

London Business School - Institute of Finance and Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Tom Gosling

London School of Economics - Law School; London Business School

Dirk Jenter

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Finance; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 3, 2023

Abstract

We survey directors and investors on the objectives, constraints, and determinants of CEO pay. We find that directors face constraints beyond participation and incentives, and that pay matters not to finance consumption but to address CEOs’ fairness concerns. 67% of directors would sacrifice shareholder value to avoid controversy, leading to lower levels and one-size-fits-all structures. Shareholders are the main source of constraints, suggesting directors and investors disagree on how to maximize value. Intrinsic motivation and reputation are seen as stronger motivators than incentive pay. Even with strong portfolio incentives, flow pay responds to performance to fairly recognize the CEO’s contribution.

Keywords: Executive Compensation, Contract Theory, CEO Incentives, Fairness, Survey

JEL Classification: G34, G38, M12, M52

Suggested Citation:

Edmans, Alex and Gosling, Tom and Jenter, Dirk, CEO Compensation: Evidence From the Field (August 3, 2023). European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 771/2021, Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3877391 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3877391
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
Acharya , V Viral , Paolo F Volpin
Corporate Governance Externalities. Review of Finance , volume 14 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2010
George A Akerlof
Labor Contracts as Partial Gift Exchange
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 97 , p. 543 - 569 Posted: 1982
George A Akerlof , Janet Yellen
The Fair Wage-Effort Hypothesis and Unemployment
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 105 , p. 255 - 283 Posted: 1990
Ana M Albuquerque , Mary Ellen Rui Albuquerque , Qi ( Carter , ) Flora , Dong
Are CEOs Paid Extra for Riskier Pay Packages? Working Paper Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,670
ABSTRACT VIEWS
18,171
RANK
6,587
31 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies