Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compliance with IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures and Audit Committee Efficiency: Evidence from Manufacturing Firms Listed on the BIST

Cagle, Melissa. (2021). Compliance with IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures and Audit Committee Efficiency: Evidence from Manufacturing Firms Listed on the BIST. Journal of Accounting and Taxation Studies, 14(2), 479-510.

32 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2021

Melissa Cagle

Dokuz Eylul University

Date Written: July 2, 2021

Abstract

Although the International Accounting Standards Board states that over 166 jurisdictions have globally adopted IFRS/IAS, this statement, unfortunately, overlooks the reporting firm's financial statements' actual compliance level. Despite the international accounting communities' continued efforts, there remains a worrying trend of non-compliance within financial statements prepared according to the International Financial Reporting Standards. Serving as a mechanism towards ensuring that the firms' financial reports are understandable, transparent and reliable, and prepared following the current legislation and international accounting standards, the Audit Committee (AC) is uniquely positioned to increase the quality of information produced by organizations. By employing the International Accounting Standard 24 "Related Party Disclosures", this paper aims to empirically measure Turkish manufacturing firms' compliance levels listed on the BIST within 2019. Moreover, the paper attempts to analyze the driving role AC characteristics play in increasing compliance within the firms. It is hoped that the results of this research will hold particular importance for researchers and regulatory agencies in promoting further improvements of the Audit Committee.

Keywords: Audit Committee Characteristics, IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, Disclosure Compliance Analysis, Manufacturing Firms

JEL Classification: m40

Suggested Citation:

Cagle, Melissa, Compliance with IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures and Audit Committee Efficiency: Evidence from Manufacturing Firms Listed on the BIST (July 2, 2021). Cagle, Melissa. (2021). Compliance with IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures and Audit Committee Efficiency: Evidence from Manufacturing Firms Listed on the BIST. Journal of Accounting and Taxation Studies, 14(2), 479-510., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3878565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
M Abdullah , L Evans , I Fraser , I Tsalavoutas
IFRS Mandatory disclosures in Malaysia: The influence of family control and the value irrelevance of compliance levels
Accounting Forum , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 328 - 348 Posted: 2015
Crossref
B Agyei-Mensah
The effect of Audit Committee attributes on compliance with IAS-24 related party disclosure: an empirical study
International Journal of Law and Management , volume 18 , issue 5 , p. 779 - 808 Posted: 2019
Crossref
B Agyei-Mensah
The effect of audit committee effectiveness and audit quality on corporate voluntary disclosure quality
African Journal of Economic and Management Studies , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 31 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Anwer S. Ahmed , Michael Neel , Dechun Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research 30 (4) (2013): 1344-1372 Posted: 10 Nov 2009 Last revised: 8 Jul 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
566
RANK
667,795
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies