Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A SWARA Approach for Investigating the Risk and Information Preferences of Users of Financial Information While Forming Decisions

Cagle, Melissa. N., Yılmaz, Kevser., & Özdağoğlu, Aşkın. A SWARA Approach for Investigating the Risk and Information Preferences of Users of Financial Information While Forming Decisions. Beykoz Academy Journal, 8(2), 376-395.

20 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2021

Melissa Cagle

Dokuz Eylul University

Date Written: December 31, 2020

Abstract

Although the selection of accounting information sources has been investigated across financial information user groups, few studies have explored the risk tolerance behavior of investors and its influence on source selection. This is unfortunate as it is notably acknowledged that risk tolerance level plays an important role in the decision-making behavior of an individual. This study makes use of the Step-Wise Weight Assessment Ratio Analysis (SWARA) approach, one of the newest criteria weight assessment method proposed for multi-criteria decision making. Twenty-four information sources (such as; financial reports, profit announcements, company presentations and CSR reports etc.) usage are evaluated under SWARA. The sample is divided into; risk averse, neutral and seeking investors. The results of the study indicate that information source selection differs between risk groups.


Keywords: Users of Financial Information, Risk Tolerance, SWARA, Decision Making, Ac- counting Information

Suggested Citation:

Cagle, Melissa, A SWARA Approach for Investigating the Risk and Information Preferences of Users of Financial Information While Forming Decisions (December 31, 2020). Cagle, Melissa. N., Yılmaz, Kevser., & Özdağoğlu, Aşkın. A SWARA Approach for Investigating the Risk and Information Preferences of Users of Financial Information While Forming Decisions. Beykoz Academy Journal, 8(2), 376-395., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3878585
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
272
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies