Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A SWARA-GRA Integrated Approach for Combating Information Overload: Investment Appraisal and Decisions

Cagle, Melissa. N., Özdağoğlu, Aşkın. and Yılmaz, Kevser. (2020). A SWARA-GRA Integrated Approach for Combating Information Overload: Investment Appraisal and Decisions. Journal of Accounting & Finance, 87 (1), 263-280.

18 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2021

Melissa Cagle

Dokuz Eylul University

Date Written: July 2, 2020

Abstract

The usage of multi-criteria decision making methods under investment appraisals and decisions has become fairly popular over the years. Working towards simplifying the information amount/complexity for the decision process, these methods also serve towards combating information overload in increasingly saturated markets. The SWARA-GRA integrated approach is offered as an alternative to the traditional ratio analysis, providing the best available investment alternatives within a number of criteria or attributes. The study analyzes the 2015-2017 financial performance of 27 BIST Food and Beverage firms based on the BIST approved quoting criteria (43 variables). The results of the analysis highlight the benefits of a SWARA-GRA approach for investment appraisals, as sudden jumps between ranks from one period to the next were made easier to follow without relinquishing use of any of the assessment variables. This method could prove useful for investors as it aids in providing a holistic view of the firm.

Keywords: Financial Information Overload; SWARA-GRA; Financial Decisions; Multi Criteria Decision Making; Investment Appraisal

Suggested Citation:

Cagle, Melissa, A SWARA-GRA Integrated Approach for Combating Information Overload: Investment Appraisal and Decisions (July 2, 2020). Cagle, Melissa. N., Özdağoğlu, Aşkın. and Yılmaz, Kevser. (2020). A SWARA-GRA Integrated Approach for Combating Information Overload: Investment Appraisal and Decisions. Journal of Accounting & Finance, 87 (1), 263-280. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3878592
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
326
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies