Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big 4 Auditors, Bank Earnings Management and Financial Crisis in Africa

Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, Forthcoming

27 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2021

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: July 4, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines whether African banks audited by a Big 4 auditor use loan loss provisions for earnings management purposes before, during and after the global financial crisis. It focuses on income smoothing as a type of earnings management. Using bank data from 21 African countries from 2002 to 2014, the results show that African banks audited by a Big 4 auditor use loan loss provisions to smooth income and the incentive to smooth income is greater during recessionary periods. Also, African banks audited by a Big 4 auditor use income smoothing to lower high earnings during the financial crisis and in the pre-financial crisis period but not in the post-financial crisis period.

Keywords: Loan loss provision, banks, audit quality, Big 4 auditor, income smoothing, financial crisis, earnings management, economic cycles, recession, earnings smoothing

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Big 4 Auditors, Bank Earnings Management and Financial Crisis in Africa (July 4, 2021). Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3879864
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
U Albertazzi , L Gambacorta
Bank profitability and the business cycle
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 393 - 409 Posted: 2009
Crossref
F Allen , G Giovannetti
The effects of the financial crisis on Sub-Saharan Africa
Review of Development Finance , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2011
Crossref
E S S Alzoubi
Audit quality and earnings management: evidence from Jordan
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 170 - 189 Posted: 2016
Crossref
M Amidu , H Issahaku
Do globalisation and adoption of IFRS by banks in Africa lead to less earnings management
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 222 - 248 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Peterson K Ozili
Bank Profitability Determinants in Africa: A Review of Literature
13 Pages · Posted: 30 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 55
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
708
RANK
469,965
1 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies