Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of Cash Flows Metrics in CEO Compensation and the Design of Loan Contracts

78 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2021 Last revised: 16 Dec 2022

Guojin Gong

University of Connecticut

Daniel Jiang

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Biqin Xie

Office of Financial Research, U.S. Department of the Treasury

Date Written: June 14, 2024

Abstract

This study examines whether the use of cash-flow-based performance metrics (CFM) in CEO compensation contracts affects the design of loan contracts. Cash-flow-based performance evaluation explicitly motivates the CEO to improve firm's cash flows, which may enhance debt repayment ability and reduce credit risk. We thus hypothesize that lenders, anticipating this incentive effect, offer lower loan spreads and reduce the use of cash-flow-based performance covenants when firms use CFM in CEO compensation contracts. Consistent with our expectation, the use of CFM is associated with lower loan spreads and less use of cash-flow-based performance covenants. These findings remain robust after we account for endogeneity. Furthermore, these results are more pronounced in firms with higher credit risk or higher risk of cash flow shortfalls, which suggests that lenders consider internally generated cash flows more valuable when borrowers face higher external financing costs or have greater liquidity concerns. Additionally, we find that the use of CFM is associated with improved cash flow performance and enhanced creditworthiness, which supports the notion that CFM serve as an effective incentive mechanism. Overall, our evidence suggests that lenders consider the incentive effect of cash-flow-based performance evaluation in the debt contracting process.

Keywords: Executive compensation, cash-flow-based performance evaluation, agency cost of debt, loan contract design, loan spread, cash-flow-based covenant

JEL Classification: G21, G30, M12, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Gong, Guojin and Jiang, Xin and Xie, Biqin, The Use of Cash Flows Metrics in CEO Compensation and the Design of Loan Contracts (June 14, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3879942 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3879942
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,000
RANK
545,411
3 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies