Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Executive Pay and Its Gap with Employee Pay Influence Corporate Performance? Evidence from Thailand Tourism Listed Companies

Forthcoming at the Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Insights

Posted: 8 Jul 2021

Laurence Ferry

University of Durham

Guanming He

Durham University

Chang Yang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July 4, 2021

Abstract

Purpose- We investigate how executive pay and its gap with employee pay influence the performance of Thailand tourism listed companies.

Design/methodology/approach- We manually collect data on the executives’ and employees’ remunerations for Thailand tourism listed companies and use the data for our OLS regression analysis. To check the robustness of our results to potential endogeneity issues, we employ the two-stage least-squares regression analysis and the impact threshold for a confounding variable approach.

Findings- We find that short-term executive compensation enhances firm performance, and that long-term executive compensation reduces the likelihood of unfavorable corporate performance. We also find that the gap in short-term pay between executives and employees has an inverted-U relation with firm performance.

Originality/value- Our study sheds light on agency problems between executives and employees in tourism companies and provides new evidence and insights on compensation research in the tourism sector in emerging markets.

Research limitations/implications- Our study suggests that higher executive pay relative to employee pay could encourage executives to work hard to improve corporate performance, but that too large a pay gap between executives and employees could impair employees’ morale and harm firm performance.

Practical implications- It is important for tourism companies to not only pay executives well but also avoid too large a pay gap between executives and employees.

Social implications- Our study implies the important role of compensation design in contributing to employee engagement and good performance for tourism firms.


Suggested Citation:

Ferry, Laurence and He, Guanming and Yang, Chang, How Do Executive Pay and Its Gap with Employee Pay Influence Corporate Performance? Evidence from Thailand Tourism Listed Companies (July 4, 2021). Forthcoming at the Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Insights, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3880041
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
374
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies