Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Managers Use Voluntary Disclosures to Crowdsource Information from the Market in Response to Economic Policy Uncertainty?

55 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2021 Last revised: 9 Jun 2023

Zackery D. Fox

Brigham Young University

Jaewoo Kim

University of Oregon - Department of Accounting

Bryce Schonberger

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Date Written: June 1, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether economic policy uncertainty (EPU) encourages managers to issue capital expenditure (capex) forecasts to facilitate learning from stock prices regarding investment decisions. We find EPU is positively associated with the likelihood of issuing capex forecasts, with a more pronounced relation when managers lack direct access to politicians, firms have greater exposure to EPU, and when investments are irreversible. In support of a causal relation, we find results extend to an unexpected spike in trade policy uncertainty during the 2018-19 U.S.-China trade dispute. In tests examining the learning-from-price mechanism, we find capex forecasts issued following high EPU periods stimulate more informed trading and that managers adjust capital expenditures in the same direction as the market reaction to these forecasts, with expenditure adjustments that appear value-enhancing. We conclude that managers use voluntary disclosures to crowdsource policy information from the market to improve investment decisions in response to EPU.

Keywords: economic policy uncertainty, voluntary disclosure, managerial learning, investment, informational feedback effect of prices, liquidity, real options, political connections

JEL Classification: G12, G28, M4

Suggested Citation:

Fox, Zackery D. and Kim, Jaewoo and Schonberger, Bryce, Do Managers Use Voluntary Disclosures to Crowdsource Information from the Market in Response to Economic Policy Uncertainty? (June 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3880710 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3880710
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
D Acemoglu , D Autor , D Dorn , G H Hanson , B Price
Import Competition and the Great US Employment Sag of the 2000s
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 34 , issue S1 , p. 141 - 198 Posted: 2016
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction Terms in Logit and Probit Models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
E Akdoğu , P Mackay
Investment and Competition
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , p. 299 - 330 Posted: 2008
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-Section and Time-Series Effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
356
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,564
RANK
192,137
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies