Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring the Family Effect on Innovative Capacity and Earnings Management

International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research, DOI: 10.25103/ijbesar.132.04

24 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2021

Ya Fang Wang

Providence University (Taiwan)

Yen-Fang Kuo

Providence University (Taiwan)

Date Written: July 24, 2020

Abstract

Purpose: This study examines whether family businesses (FBs) differ from non-FBs with regard to innovative strategies, and whether their innovation is a reflection of earnings management behavior.

Design/methodology/approach: This study extended research into the issue of FBs by investigating innovation capacity and earnings management. We adopted the electronics industry in Taiwan (between 2010 and 2015) as a research sample to determine (1) whether family effects influence innovation performance at the firm level; (2) whether the innovation performance of FBs is an indication of earnings management behavior; and (3) the effects of family involvement and CEO-duality in FBs.

Finding: Our results show that FBs are less likely than non-FBs to devote resources to increasing innovation. However, managerial participation of family members and a uniform CEO-duality leadership was shown to strengthen efficiency and flexibility in decision-making, thereby enhancing innovation capacity. We also found that FBs with higher innovation capacity are less likely to window-dress earnings. This association is more pronounced in cases of CEO-duality leadership, which implies that FBs’ innovative ambitions and duality leadership had greatly advanced in operating performance and corporate governance, and thus restrain managerial self-interested behavior.

Research limitations/implications: This study had a number of limitations. First is the measure of innovative capacity. There are a number of ways of measuring innovation, and we posit that patents are superior to R&D investment when investigating innovation capacity. Second, our results may have been affected by other determinants of innovation capacity, despite the fact that we adopted several control variables, such as financial characteristics, which may be correlated with innovation outcomes. Third, we used discretionary accruals as a proxy for earnings management; however, this does not necessarily reflect actual practices of earnings management. Although such proxies have been consistently used in previous research, may provide rich insights into earnings management behavior. Despite the noted limitations, our evidence clearly suggests the following: (1) FBs with strong family involvement in management and CEO-duality leadership tend to have higher innovation capacity; and (2) FBs with quality innovation capacity are less likely to engage in earnings management.

Originality/value: This study fills a gap in the research on FBs by providing evidence concerning the effects of family on innovation and earnings management. Our findings have important implications for future research as well as the establishment of regulations and standards. Our findings provide evidence of a positive association between family effects and innovation capacity, which depends on the degree of family involvement in management and leadership structure. We found that family governance has a significantly positive impact on the competitive advantage of FBs. We also found that the innovation capacity of FBs is negatively associated with earnings management behavior. This study also re-examines the apparent contradictions in previous findings related to earnings management among FBs, while contributing to the literature linking family effects and governance mechanisms to earnings management behavior.

Keywords: family business, family involvement, CEO-duality, innovation, earnings management

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Ya Fang and Kuo, Yen-Fang, Exploring the Family Effect on Innovative Capacity and Earnings Management (July 24, 2020). International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research, DOI: 10.25103/ijbesar.132.04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3880651
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
149 References
M A Adnan , S N N Htay , H M A Rashid , A K M Meera
A panel data analysis on the relationship between corporate governance and bank efficiency
Journal of Accounting , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2011
A Ali , T-Y Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C Andres
Family ownership, financing constraints and investment decisions
Applied Financial Economics , volume 21 , issue 22 , p. 1641 - 1659 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
534
RANK
805,600
149 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies