Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Consequences of Abandoning the Quarterly Reporting Mandate in the Prime Market Segment

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2021 Last revised: 17 Jul 2023

Tobias Bornemann

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Anna-Lena Moosmann

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Zoltán Novotny-Farkas

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: July 14, 2023

Abstract

We examine the determinants and consequences of firms’ interim reporting choices in response to the gradual deregulation of quarterly reporting in the prime market segment of the Vienna Stock Exchange (VSE). Following the deregulation, only a few firms terminate quarterly reporting entirely, while most firms reduce the content of quarterly reports predominantly by omitting the notes disclosures. Our interview and empirical evidence suggest that firms primarily consider the information needs of their key stakeholders, such as institutional (foreign) investors and analysts, as well as their transparency preferences in their interim reporting decisions. Reporting and proprietary costs are less important to prime market firms. Firms that terminate quarterly reporting or substantially reduce the content of quarterly reports experience an economically significant reduction in liquidity, but not a deterioration in analyst forecast properties. Collectively, our results suggest that stakeholders demand quarterly reporting, but not necessarily full quarterly reports.

Keywords: disclosure regulation, reporting frequency, information asymmetry, liquidity, quarterly reporting, interim reporting

JEL Classification: G18, K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bornemann, Tobias and Moosmann, Anna-Lena and Novotny-Farkas, Zoltán, The Consequences of Abandoning the Quarterly Reporting Mandate in the Prime Market Segment (July 14, 2023). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3881711 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3881711
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,483
RANK
303,587
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies