Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Managers’ Nonnative Accents Influence Investment Decisions?

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2021

Leonardo Barcellos

Arizona State University

Kathryn Kadous

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Date Written: July 6, 2021

Abstract

Reactions to earnings calls are sensitive to subtle features of managers’ speech, but little is known about the effect of nonnative accents in this setting. Nonnative-accented CEOs may avoid holding calls in English for fear of investors’ negative stereotypes. However, theory indicates that stereotypes from the CEO position and nonnative accents conflict, and that the process of reconciling conflicting stereotypes requires effortful processing. We use a series of four experiments to test each link of the causal chain that we hypothesize based on this theory. We demonstrate that motivated investors reconcile conflicting stereotypes by inferring exceptional qualities, such as hard work and determination, that positively affect their impressions of nonnative-accented CEOs and, hence, of the company as an investment. We also show that, because bad news stimulates effortful processing, investors receiving bad (versus good) news are more likely to form a positive image of nonnative-accented CEOs and their companies.

Keywords: Earnings conference calls, investment decisions, nonnative accents, impressions of CEOs

Suggested Citation:

Barcellos, Leonardo and Kadous, Kathryn, Do Managers’ Nonnative Accents Influence Investment Decisions? (July 6, 2021). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3881429
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
129 References
W K Ahn , N S Kim , M E Lassaline , M J Dennis
Causal status as a determinant of feature centrality
Cognitive Psychology , volume 41 , issue 4 , p. 361 - 416 Posted: 2000
S Asay , R D Guggenmos , K Kadous , L Koonce , R Libby
Theory Testing and Process Evidence in Accounting Experiments Posted: 2021
H S Asay , J Hales , K Rupar
Investor judgments: Linking measures to constructs Posted: 2019
R K Aune , R A Reynolds
The empirical development of the normative message processing scale
Communication Monographs , volume 61 , issue 2 , p. 135 - 160 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
636
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,242
RANK
95,735
16 Citations
129 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Pedagogy eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies