Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainable Consumption and Production, Climate Change and Firm Performance

Journal of Impact & ESG Investing Winter 2021, 2(2), 8-34 Available at https://jesg.pm-research.com/content/2/2/8

2 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2021 Last revised: 5 Jan 2022

Maretno A. Harjoto

Pepperdine University - Pepperdine Graziadio Business School (PGBS)

Clemens Kownatzki

Pepperdine University - Graziadio School of Business and Management

Jillian Alderman

Pepperdine University - Graziadio School of Business and Management

Robert Lee

Graziadio School of Business - Pepperdine University

Date Written: July 6, 2021

Abstract


Transitioning into a resource-efficient and low-carbon emission economy is one of the most critical demands in our modern society. Using TRUCOST environmental and Paris alignment data from the S&P Global Market Intelligence, this study examines the firm-level alignment between ESG scores and firms’ sustainable business practices in consumption, production, and climate change from 2005 to 2018. This study finds that firms’ overall ESG scores are aligned with sustainable consumption, production, and climate action. Specifically, the environmental aspect of ESG is aligned with firms’ sustainable consumption, production, and climate action while social and governance aspects of ESG are not. As investors and corporate managers are paying more attention to firms’ ESG scores, this study provides insights for asset managers who rely on ESG for their investment selection and corporate managers who attempt to improve firms’ ESG performance on sustainable consumption, production, and climate change initiatives. This study also finds strong evidence that firms’ sustainable consumption, production, and climate action offer 0.3% to 0.8% annualized excess stock returns for a one percent increase in firms’ ability to meet these goals. Hence, our findings provide insight into how firms’ sustainable consumption, production, and climate action can impact the investment community as well as firms’ stakeholders.

Keywords: ESG and UNSDG alignment; sustainable consumption and production; climate action; firm performance; stock return

JEL Classification: M14, Q51, Q53, Q55, G11

Suggested Citation:

Harjoto, Maretno Agus and Kownatzki, Clemens and Alderman, Jillian and Lee, Robert, Sustainable Consumption and Production, Climate Change and Firm Performance (July 6, 2021). Journal of Impact & ESG Investing Winter 2021, 2(2), 8-34 Available at https://jesg.pm-research.com/content/2/2/8, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3881134 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3881134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
320
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,590
RANK
215,929
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies