Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Local Community's Social Capital and CEO Pay Duration

55 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2021 Last revised: 19 Dec 2024

Zhenjiang Gu

Grenoble École de Management

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Louise Yi Lu

Australian National University

Yangxin Yu

City University of Hong Kong

Date Written: September 1, 2018

Abstract

In this study, we examine the impact of social capital surrounding firms’ headquarters on their CEOs’ pay duration, reflected by the vesting periods of the short-term and long-term components in their annual compensation. Our analysis reveals that CEO pay duration increases with the level of social capital in the county in which firms are headquartered. We further find that this effect is more pronounced when CEOs are more likely to be short-term oriented, suggesting that under the influence of local community’s social capital, the board of directors uses longer pay duration to better align CEOs’ interests with long-term shareholder value. Our results are robust to a variety of additional tests and a smaller sample of firms that had relocated their headquarters to communities with a different level of social capital. Overall, our findings are consistent with the view that social capital incentivises firms to be long-term oriented and refrain from short-term opportunistic activities, and this lengthens CEO pay duration.

Keywords: social capital, executive compensation, CEO pay duration

JEL Classification: G30, M12, Z13

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Zhenjiang and Kim, Jeong-Bon and Lu, Louise Yi and Yu, Yangxin, Local Community's Social Capital and CEO Pay Duration (September 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3881495
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
949
RANK
864,457
103 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies