Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Association of Audit Committee Quality with Internal Control Quality: A Study of Select Indian Companies

16 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2021

Dr. K. Shankaraiah

Osmania University

Seyed Masoud Sajjadian Amiri

Osmania University (OU)

Date Written: October 9, 2015

Abstract

The study focuses on the association between audit committee quality characteristics and internal control quality, so as to improve the quality of financial reporting by understanding and managing the audit committee characteristics. In this study, the concept of internal control quality and its association with audit committee characteristics by testing the hypothesis are presented in the context of select Indian companies.

Majority of the equity based listed companies at BSE have complied with the legal formalities like appointment of independent directors, number of meetings, size of the audit committee, legal and financial qualifications of the directors, as they were required for the listing at a stock exchange in India. The proportion of independent directors on audit committee and the proportion of directors on audit committee with legal qualifications have association with the internal control, but number of years the firm has been sharing information to the public, Proportion of financial expert on the audit committee, manager’s educational background, managers with financial education background, number of directors on audit committee, number of audit committee meetings, firm age, geographic segments, growth and Constant were not influencing the internal control. Thus, it may be inferred that the companies may improve the internal control by managing the independent directors and directors with legal qualifications, as these characteristics have significant association with internal control.

Keywords: Audit Committee, Internal Control, Relationship

Suggested Citation:

Kanukuntla, Shankaraiah and Amiri, Seyed Masoud Sajjadian, Association of Audit Committee Quality with Internal Control Quality: A Study of Select Indian Companies (October 9, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3883408 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3883408
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
L B Sawyer , Dittenhofer , J H Ma &amp; Scheiner
Sawyer's internal auditing: the practice of modern internal auditing Posted: 2003
D Mwindi
Auditing Posted: 2008
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants Posted: 2006
Handbook of International Auditing, Assurance and Ethics Pronouncements Posted: 2008-08-19
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
522
RANK
819,493
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies