Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Qualitative Insights into Corporate Governance Reform, Management Decision-Making, and Accounting Performance Semi-structured Interview Evidence

32 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2021

Abdullah Alajmi

Griffith University

Andrew C. Worthington

Griffith University

Date Written: July 12, 2021

Abstract

Purpose – To enhance our understanding of the relations between corporate governance reform, management decision-making, and firm accounting performance in Kuwait by focusing on the role of important but difficult to quantitatively measure factors, including culture, religion, tribal, and political circumstances.

Design/methodology/approach – The analysis of data collected using semi-structured interviews using coding and quoting approaches. The coding approach categorises the responses into themes and sub-themes and the quoting approach adds depth to this categorisation. We interpret the results in the context of related studies concerning the factors affecting the corporate governance–firm performance relationship.

Findings – A range of external cultural factors, including religion, politics, and Kuwait’s tribal system, along with economic and financial circumstances and accounting standards, influence the corporate governance–firm performance relationship in Kuwait. The in-depth semi-structured interviews reveal the incentives for shareholders and managers to achieve high firm performance through good corporate governance, but especially for better-performing firms. Suggestion of broad support by firm managers and directors for recent reforms concerning Kuwait’s corporate governance code and guidelines.

Research limitations/implications – Qualitative research provides additional insights into the traditionally quantitative analysis of the corporate governance–firm performance relationship. It is particularly useful into developing market contexts where data is limited and regulatory frameworks are undergoing rapid change.

Practical implications – The findings are of value to domestic and international investors gauging investment risk, firm managers operating within a growing and developing but still traditional market, and regulators seeking ongoing improvements in corporate governance, including disclosure, openness, and transparency.

Originality/value – This is the first study to apply qualitative methods to the analysis of the corporate governance–firm performance relationship in Kuwait, particularly in light of recent and extensive corporate governance reform.


Keywords: Corporate governance, accounting performance, managerial decision-making, structured interviews.

JEL Classification: G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Alajmi, Abdullah and Worthington, Andrew C., Qualitative Insights into Corporate Governance Reform, Management Decision-Making, and Accounting Performance Semi-structured Interview Evidence (July 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3884667 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3884667
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
H Aldamen , K Duncan , S Kelly , R Mcnamara , S Nagel
Audit committee characteristics and firm performance during the global financial crisis
Accounting & Finance , volume 52 , issue 4 , p. 971 - 1000 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M M Alfraih , A M Almutawa
Voluntary disclosure and corporate governance: Empirical evidence from Kuwait
International Journal of law and Management , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 217 - 236 Posted: 2017
Crossref
M Al-Saidi , B Shammari
Corporate governance in Kuwait: An analysis in terms of grounded theory
International Journal of Disclosure and Governance , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 128 - 160 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Alshetwi
The Association between Board Size, Independence and Firm Performance: Evidence from Saudi Arabia
Global Journal of Management and Business Research , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 28 Posted: 2017
Load more
1 Citations
Michael Schwanenberger , Mary Dereshiwsky , Laura Sujo-Montes
Administrative Perceptions Regarding Supervision of Online Teaching and Learning
Education Sciences , volume 11 , issue 11 , p. 674 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
465
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,895
RANK
141,557
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies