Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How do Suppliers Benefit from Customers’ Voluntary Disclosure? The Effect of Customers’ Earnings Guidance on Upstream Firms’ Investment Efficiency

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2021 Last revised: 7 Jul 2022

Peng-Chia Chiu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Lili Jiu

Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University (XJTLU)

Po-Hsiang Yu

National Chung Hsing University

Date Written: July 8, 2021

Abstract

We explore whether and how the issuance of customers’ financial forward-looking information affects the investment efficiency of their upstream firms. Using earnings guidance as a proxy for forward-looking information, we find that firms wherein customers disclose earnings forecasts invest more efficiently than those where customers withhold forward-looking information. Our findings hold after controlling for a set of firm characteristics, employing alternative model specifications and measurements, and using the 2011 Thailand flood as a quasi-experiment. Further analyses offer support that the positive impact of customers’ earnings guidance on upstream firms’ investment efficiency is stronger for customers issuing more informative, disaggregated, and accurate forecasts and suppliers with weaker bargaining power. We also observe an asymmetric response of suppliers’ investments toward customers’ good-news versus bad-news forecasts. Furthermore, by conducting a textual-based analysis, we find that suppliers’ investment efficiency increases with more embedded supply chain relevant information in customers’ earnings guidance reports. Overall, our findings suggest that suppliers benefit from customers’ earnings guidance to better assess their investment decisions, thereby achieving greater investment efficiency.

Keywords: Supply chain; Investment efficiency; Voluntary disclosure; Management earnings forecast; Textual analysis

JEL Classification: D22; G38; L15; M41

Suggested Citation:

Chiu, Peng-Chia and Jiu, Lili and Yu, Po-Hsiang, How do Suppliers Benefit from Customers’ Voluntary Disclosure? The Effect of Customers’ Earnings Guidance on Upstream Firms’ Investment Efficiency (July 8, 2021). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3884314
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
N Abarca , E Fantino
Choice and foraging
Journal of the Experimental Analysis of Behavior , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 117 - 123 Posted: 1982
K D Allee , T E Christensen , B S Graden , K J Merkley
The genesis of voluntary disclosure: An analysis of firms' first earnings guidance
Management Science , volume 67 , issue 3 , p. 1914 - 1938 Posted: 2021
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S N Janakiraman
Are Selling, General, and Administrative Costs "Sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
C Anilowski , M Feng , D J Skinner
Does earnings guidance affect market returns? The nature and information content of aggregate earnings guidance
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,724
RANK
259,334
11 Citations
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies