Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance: Joining the Dots between Institutional Reform, Organisational Change and Firm Performance

24 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2021

Abdullah Alajmi

Griffith University

Andrew C. Worthington

Griffith University

Date Written: July 12, 2021

Abstract

Purpose — Examine the link between boards and audit committees and firm performance in Kuwaiti listed firms in the context of recent and extensive corporate governance regulatory reform.

Design/methodology/approach — Panel data regression analysis with fixed effects and clustered standard errors of firm performance for 62–95 listed industrial and services firms in Kuwait over the period 2010–2017. The dependent variables are the returns on assets and equity, the debt to equity ratio and leverage and Tobin’s Q and the independent variables comprise board of directors and audit committee characteristics, including size, the number of meetings, and the numbers of independent and outside board and expert committee members. Firm size, subsidiary status, and cash flow serve as control variables.

Findings — Mixed results with respect to the characteristics of the board of directors. Board size and independent and outsider board members positively relate only to Tobin’s Q and insiders only to debt to equity. For audit committee characteristics, committee size, independence and expertise positively relate to the return on equity and committee size and expertise only to Tobin’s Q. Of the five performance measures considered, board and audit committee characteristics together best determine Tobin’s Q.

Research limitations/implications — Data from a single country limits generalisability and control variables necessarily limited in a developing market context. Need for qualitative insights into corporate governance reform as a complement to conventional quantitative analysis. In combining accounting and market information, Tobin’s Q appears best able to recognise the performance benefits of good corporate governance in terms of internal organisational change.

Practical implications — The recent corporate governance code and guidelines reforms exert a mixed impact on firm performance, with audit committees not boards apparently of most influence. But recent reforms implied most change to boards of directors. One suggestion is that nonmarket reform may have been unneeded given existing market pressure on listed firms and firms anticipating regulatory change.

Social implications — Kuwait’s corporate governance reforms likely codified corporate governance practices already in place among many of its firms in pursuit of organisational legitimacy, and while invoking substantial change to audit committees, ultimately involved little change to firm performance, at least in the short term. Some firms may also have delisted in expectation of stronger corporate governance requirements. Regardless, these direct and indirect processes both improved the overall quality of listed firm corporate governance and performance in Kuwait.

Originality/value — Seminal analysis of corporate governance reforms in Kuwait, which have rapidly progressed from no corporate governance code and guidelines to an initially voluntary and then compulsory regime. Only known analysis to incorporate both board of directors and audit committee characteristics. Reveals that studies of the corporate governance–firm performance relationship may face difficulty in model specification, and ultimately empirical significance, given the complexity of corporate governance codes and guidelines, leads in changing firm behaviour, and self-selection of firms into and out of regulated markets.

Keywords: Corporate governance, organisational change, firm performance, regulation.

JEL Classification: G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Alajmi, Abdullah and Worthington, Andrew C., Corporate Governance: Joining the Dots between Institutional Reform, Organisational Change and Firm Performance (July 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3884655 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3884655
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
W M Al-Ahdal , M H Alsamhi , M I Tabash , N H Farhan
The impact of corporate governance on financial performance of Indian and GCC listed firms: An empirical investigation
Research in International Business and Finance , volume 51 Posted: 2020
Crossref
M Adams , W Jiang
Do outside directors influence the financial performance of risk-trading firms? Evidence from the UK insurance industry
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 64 , p. 36 - 51 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Prof. Dr. Ahmed Al-Baidhani أ. د. احمد البيضاني
Review of Corporate Governance Bundle
Pages: 19 Posted: 7 Jul 2014 Last revised: 22 Oct 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M O Alhajri
Factors associated with the size of internal audit functions: evidence from Kuwait
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 75 - 89 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
811
RANK
649,230
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies