Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Playing the Field: Competing Bids for Anadarko Petroleum Corp.

HBS Case No. 220-087

Posted: 24 Jul 2021

Daniel Green

Harvard Business School

Scott Mayfield

Harvard Business School; Harvard Business School - Finance Unit

Benjamin Esty

Harvard Business School

Date Written: July 22, 2021

Abstract

On April 8, 2019, Occidental’s Hollub made a private offer to buy Anadarko Petroleum Corporation for $72 in cash and stock. Anadarko's CEO Walker said he would consider the offer, yet three days later, on April 11, he signed a merger agreement with Chevron in a deal worth $65 per share in cash and stock. This agreement included a $1 billion “break-up" (termination) fee payable to Chevron if Anadarko accepted another offer. To avoid losing the deal, Hollub then made an initial public offer to buy Anadarko for $76 per share in cash and stock on April 24. When Anadarko failed to respond, Hollub, revised her offer on May 5. Although the revised offer had the same stated value of $76 per share, it included substantially more cash ($59 per share instead of the original $38 per share). With competing offers on the table, Walker now had to decide whether to accept Chevron’s $65 offer or pay the break-up fee and accept Occidental’s $76 offer? Of course, once he had made up his mind, he would have to convince his board that it was the right offer to accept and the right price.

This case has four pedagogical objectives. It shows how to: 1) value a complex acquisition offer with equity consideration; 2) assess and value merger synergies; and 3) test whether acquisition funding is zero NPV and address the situation if it is not; 4) analyze deal completion risk and measures taken to increase deal certainty. The case also highlights several governance issues including the merits of requiring shareholder approval for large equity-financed, but not debt-financed, acquisitions, and the motivations for granting new "change in control" compensation to senior executives while they are negotiating a merger agreement.

Keywords: acquisition, bidding war, valuation, oil & gas, corporate governance, discounted cash flow, synergies

JEL Classification: G34, G32

Suggested Citation:

Green, Daniel and Mayfield, Scott and Esty, Benjamin C., Playing the Field: Competing Bids for Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (July 22, 2021). HBS Case No. 220-087, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3885282
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
955
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies