Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Re-Examining Board Reforms and Firm Value: Response to “How Much Should We Trust Staggered Differences-in-Differences Estimates?” by Baker, Larcker, and Wang (2021)

20 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2021

Larry Fauver

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Department of Finance; University of Tennessee

Mingyi Hung

University of British Columbia (UBC); Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Xi Li

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Finance

Alvaro G. Taboada

Mississippi State University

Date Written: July 13, 2021

Abstract

Using board reforms in 41 countries and staggered difference-in-differences (DiD) estimates, Fauver, Hung, Li, and Taboada (2017, FHLT) find that firm value increases following the reforms. In a study that reviews the recent econometric theory on staggered DiD estimations, Baker, Larcker, and Wang (2021, BLW) contest the robustness of FHLT’s results. They conclude that FHLT’s results become mostly insignificant using alternative approaches that address the biases suggested by this recent theory. However, we find that the insignificant findings in BLW’s analysis are largely due to selective modifications that BLW made to FHLT’s data and model specifications, which resulted in low power tests. Importantly, these changes, which were not transparently disclosed in BLW, largely explain the insignificant results reported in BLW, even before implementing the new econometric approaches. Thus, in this study, we perform a battery of tests that apply alternative approaches that address the biases suggested in this recent literature. In contrast to the conclusions in BLW, we find that FHLT’s results remain significant. Our findings reinforce the conclusion of FHLT that board reforms increase firm value and highlight the importance of fair data representation when applying modified staggered DiD methods.

Keywords: Staggered difference-in-differences estimates; board reforms

JEL Classification: C13, C18, G15, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Fauver, Larry and Hung, Mingyi and Li, Xi and Taboada, Alvaro G., Re-Examining Board Reforms and Firm Value: Response to “How Much Should We Trust Staggered Differences-in-Differences Estimates?” by Baker, Larcker, and Wang (2021) (July 13, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3885472 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3885472
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Robert D. Arnott , Campbell R. Harvey , Harry Markowitz
A Backtesting Protocol in the Era of Machine Learning
Pages: 18 Posted: 13 Nov 2018 Last revised: 24 Nov 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Andrew Baker , David F. Larcker , Charles C. Y. Wang
How Much Should We Trust Staggered Difference-In-Differences Estimates?
European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 736/2021, Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 246, Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, Pages: 61 Posted: 1 Mar 2021 Last revised: 27 Jan 2022
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John Manuel Barrios
Staggeringly Problematic: A Primer on Staggered DiD for Accounting Researchers
Pages: 41 Posted: 17 Mar 2021 Last revised: 18 Jan 2024
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kirill Borusyak , Xavier Jaravel , Jann Spiess
Revisiting Event Study Designs: Robust and Efficient Estimation
Pages: 85 Posted: 20 Aug 2016 Last revised: 20 Apr 2022
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
1 Citations
Hamdi Driss , Sadok El Ghoul , Omrane Guedhami , John K. Wald
Governance and leverage: International evidence
Financial Review , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 261 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
725
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,597
RANK
80,872
1 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies