Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capitalism, Laws, and the Need for Trustworthy Institutions

Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Forthcoming

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 598/2021

19 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2021 Last revised: 17 Aug 2021

Anat R. Admati

Stanford Graduate School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: August 11, 2021

Abstract

This article responds to the question: "Capitalism: What has gone wrong, what needs to change and how to fix it" for a special volume on capitalism in Oxford Review of Economic Policy.

Debates on capitalism get muddled by blind spots about essential institutions, particularly effective governments and legal systems that enable corporations to exist in their current form and markets to succeed at scale. Across regimes, incentives to maximize profits and power play key roles in determining outcomes, and all institutions are vulnerable to distortions from imbalances in control, information, and expertise. The key problems with capitalism today boil down to failed governance and confusions that obscure the issues and prevent beneficial changes.

In recent decades, the forces of “free-market capitalism” have undermined and overwhelmed democratic institutions, leading to intertwined crises in both capitalism and democracy. Deception and the manipulation of beliefs often distort both markets and political systems. The financial system illustrates starkly how key institutions have failed society and how flawed narratives enable recklessness and bad rules to persist.

Fixing capitalism must start with seeing the challenges for what they are. The devil is then in the details of improving transparency, norms, rules, and civic engagement so as to prevent the abuse of power and to create more trustworthy and less corruptible versions of capitalism.


Keywords: Capitalism, Narratives, Corporations, Legal Systems, Political Economy, Deception

JEL Classification: A12, A20, B12, D72, D73, D86, F55, G28, G38, K11, K12, K22, K4, L21, M42, P16

Suggested Citation:

Admati, Anat R., Capitalism, Laws, and the Need for Trustworthy Institutions (August 11, 2021). Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Forthcoming, European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 598/2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3886969 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3886969
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Daron Acemoglu
Why not a political Coase theorem? Social conflict, commitment, and politics
Journal of Comparative Economics , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 620 - 652 Posted: 2003
Anat R Admati
A Skeptical View of Financialized Corporate Governance
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 131 - 150 Posted: 2017
Anat R Admati , F Martin , Hellwig ; Admati , R Anat , Martin F Hellwig
The Bankers' New Clothes: What's Wrong with Banking and What to Do about It
The Parade of Bankers New Clothes Continues: 34 Flawed Claims Debunked Posted: 2013
Anat R Admati , M Peter , Martin F Demarzo , Paul Hellwig , Pfleiderer
The Leverage Ratchet Effect
Journal of Finance , volume 73 , issue 1 , p. 145 - 198 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
509
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,633
RANK
126,881
2 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies