Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Language and Management Forecasts around the World

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3886553

Posted: 19 Jul 2021

Yuyan Guan

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Zheng Wang

City University of Hong Kong

M.H. Franco Wong

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business; University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Xiangang Xin

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)

Date Written: July 12, 2021

Abstract

Speakers of weak future-time reference (FTR) languages perceive the future as closer and more imminent. In this study, we examine the important question of whether the FTR properties of languages spoken by investors affect their demand for forward-looking information, thereby influencing corporate management forecast practices in different countries. We predict that investors who speak weak-FTR languages are more concerned about the future prospects of their investments and the ability of company management to respond to future changes, leading to a greater demand for management forecasts from these companies. We find that firms in weak-FTR language countries exhibit a greater propensity for and frequency of issuing management forecasts and that they also issue more long-horizon forecasts, compared to those in strong-FTR language countries. Our results hold after controlling for other country-level cultural factors. Within the same countries, firms with more foreign institutional ownership from weak-FTR countries issue more (long-horizon) management forecasts than their counterparts. Finally, firms from strong-FTR countries significantly increase their issuance of (long-horizon) management forecasts, after cross-listing their stocks in Germany, a weak-FTR country. This is the first study to examine language FTR as an antecedent to voluntary disclosures. We document a linguistic trait as a novel investor environment factor that shapes corporate voluntary disclosures and explains the cross-country variations in management forecast practices.

Keywords: Language, linguistic relativity principle, future time reference, management earnings forecasts, foreign institutional ownership, cross-listing

JEL Classification: D83, G15, M41, Z13

Suggested Citation:

Guan, Yuyan and Wang, Zheng and Wong, M.H. Franco and Xin, Xiangang, Language and Management Forecasts around the World (July 12, 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3886553, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3886553
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
754
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies