Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Information and Market Skepticism of Voluntary Disclosure

Paths for Sustainable Development: Festschrift for Shubhashis Gangopadhyay, Robert Lensink, Stefan Sjogren and Clas Wihlborg, Eds. Publishers: L,S&W, Gothenburg, Sweden (2017)

Posted: 11 Aug 2021 Last revised: 24 Aug 2021

Zining Li

Loyola Marymount University - College of Business Administration

Radhika Lunawat

University of California, Irvine - Accounting Area

Date Written: September 20, 2017

Abstract

We examine the impact of public information on firms’ disclosure strategies. We portray two regimes based on a model that extends the setting of Dye (1985) and Jung and Kwon (1988). In the first regime, the firm is able to respond to public information and thus has the last word, and in the second the firm’s hands are tied so that it cannot respond even though it anticipates the public disclosure and the market’s price response. We find existence of equilibrium with cutoff strategies in each regime; a firm will disclose when it receives a signal greater than the cutoff. A unique equilibrium exists when the distribution of public information has no moving support, satisfies the monotone likelihood ratio property, and is either weakly concave or convex in the state of the firm. We compare the firm’s voluntary disclosure strategy in each regime to the benchmark of no public information. The results of this comparison for the two regimes give us a more robust interpretation of archival data.

Keywords: Voluntary Disclosure, Timing of Disclosure, Market Skepticism

JEL Classification: M41, D82, C11

Suggested Citation:

Li, Zining and Lunawat, Radhika, Public Information and Market Skepticism of Voluntary Disclosure (September 20, 2017). Paths for Sustainable Development: Festschrift for Shubhashis Gangopadhyay, Robert Lensink, Stefan Sjogren and Clas Wihlborg, Eds. Publishers: L,S&W, Gothenburg, Sweden (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3887065
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
718
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies