Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Transparency and Firm-Level Operational Efficiency

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3888753

48 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2021

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Shushu Jiang

University of Toronto, Rotman School of Management, Students

Dushyantkumar Vyas

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management; University of Toronto at Mississauga

Date Written: July 17, 2021

Abstract

We examine the informational role of governments in the private sector in emerging economies. Using a large sample of private firms, we show that governments’ ability and willingness to collect and disseminate economic information (government transparency) is positively associated with firm-level operational efficiency and access to external financing. Several cross-sectional analyses corroborate our main findings. We find that the effect of government transparency is stronger for firms operating in weaker alternative information environments. We also find a reduced effect of government transparency in countries with better-developed capital markets that facilitate capital allocation and production efficiency. Additional analyses using the World Bank-supported Open Government Data initiative as a staggered shock to government transparency provides further support to our primary results. Overall, our paper sheds light on the important role played by governments in emerging markets in aggregating and disseminating economic information.

Keywords: Government Transparency, Private Firms, Emerging Markets, Open Government Data, Operational Efficiency, Management Accounting

JEL Classification: F30, G30, G38, M10, M16, M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Jiang, Shushu and Vyas, Dushyantkumar, Government Transparency and Firm-Level Operational Efficiency (July 17, 2021). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3888753, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3888753 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3888753
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,549
RANK
249,893
5 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies