Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Restrictions on Managerial Outside Job Opportunities and Corporate Tax Policy: Evidence from a Natural Experiment

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2021

Tai-Yuan CHEN

Department of Accounting, HKUST Business School, Hong Kong University of Science & Technology

Zhihong Chen

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology

Yongbo Li

Shenzhen Audencia Financial Technology Institute

Date Written: June 14, 2021

Abstract

We examine the effect of restricting executives’ outside job opportunities on corporate tax avoidance and tax risk, using a natural experiment of the staggered adoption and rejection of the inevitable disclosure doctrine (IDD). Based on a difference-in-differences analysis, we find strong evidence that the IDD decreases effective tax rates. We also find that the IDD reduces tax risk though the evidence is weaker. The effect is generally more pronounced when the risk of dismissal due to poor performance is higher. Additional analyses show that the IDD increases the use of tax haven operations. Finally, a path analysis shows that the increase in tax avoidance contributes about 6% to 7% of the total effect of the IDD on firm value. Overall, the results suggest that career concerns motivate executives to reduce their firms’ tax burden using low risk strategies.

Keywords: Inevitable disclosure doctrine; outside job opportunities; tax avoidance; tax risk; firm value

JEL Classification: H26; J62

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Tai-Yuan and Chen, Zhihong and Li, Yongbo, Restrictions on Managerial Outside Job Opportunities and Corporate Tax Policy: Evidence from a Natural Experiment (June 14, 2021). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3888987
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
K Powers , J R Robinson , B Stomberg
How Do CEO Incentives Affect Corporate Tax Planning and Financial Reporting of Income Taxes?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 21 , p. 672 - 710 Posted: 2016
Crossref
B Qiu , T Wang
Does Knowledge Protection Benefit Shareholders? Evidence from Stock Market Reaction and Firm Investment in Knowledge Assets
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 53 , issue 3 , p. 1341 - 1370 Posted: 2018
Crossref
S O Rego
Tax-Avoidance Activities of U.S. Multinational Corporations
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 805 - 833 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S O Rego , R J Wilson
Equity Risk Incentives in Corporate Tax Aggressiveness
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 50 , issue 3 , p. 775 - 810 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
686
RANK
672,649
1 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies