Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can High Dividend Yield Sustain Firm Value during the COVID-19 Crash? Evidence from Turkish Firms

Posted: 11 Apr 2022

Omer Tan

Marmara University

Hakan Cavlak

Ardahan University

Yasin Cebeci

Marmara University

Necati Güneş

Marmara University

Date Written: July 15, 2021

Abstract

In this study, we want to investigate whether having a high dividend yield has a catalyst effect on stock prices during the COVID-19 turmoil period. 164 manufacturing firms in Borsa Istanbul are classified as firms with high and low dividend yield according to their last five-years’ (2015-2019) averages. The analysis results show that the stock returns of firms with high dividend yield are less impacted in this COVID-19 crash. Likewise, firms with a high frequency of dividend payouts are less affected than those who do not. This study reveals that firms with high dividend yield are regarded as safe havens by investors in this crash caused by COVID-19.

Keywords: COVID-19, Dividend Yield, Borsa Istanbul, Firm Value, Daily Cases, Daily Deaths.

JEL Classification: G12, G32, G35

Suggested Citation:

Tan, Omer Faruk and Cavlak, Hakan and Cebeci, Yasin and Güneş, Necati, Can High Dividend Yield Sustain Firm Value during the COVID-19 Crash? Evidence from Turkish Firms (July 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3888968
 Not Available for Download
118 References
A Abiad , R M Arao , S Dagli , B Ferrarini , I Noy , P Osewe , R Platitas
The economic impact of the COVID-19 outbreak on developing Asia
Asian Development Bank Briefs , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2020
Ö Açıkgöz , A Günay
The early impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the global and Turkish economy
Turkish Journal of Medical Sciences , volume 50 , issue SI-1 , p. 520 - 526 Posted: 2020
F Adjaoud , W Ben-Amar
Corporate governance and dividend policy: Shareholders' protection or expropriation
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 37 , issue 5-6 , p. 648 - 667 Posted: 2010
T Ahmad , H Haroon , M Baig , J Hui
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) Pandemic and economic Impact
Pakistan Journal of Medical Sciences , volume 36 , p. D19 - S23 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
347
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies