Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does CEO Power Affect The Association Between CEO Compensation and Tangible Assets Impairments?

Review of Pacific Basin Financial Markets and Policies, 2021

Posted: 19 Jul 2021

Kin‐Wai Lee

Nanyang Technological University (NTU)

Cheng-Few Lee

Rutgers University, Newark, School of Business-Newark, Department of Finance & Economics

Gillian H. H. Yeo

Nanyang Technological University (NTU) - Division of Accounting

Date Written: February 1, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the association between CEO compensation and tangible long-lived assets impairment. We find that the level of CEO compensation is negatively associated with the tangible long-lived assets impairment charges. We also document that in firms with CEOs who have more decision-making power, the negative association between CEO compensation and tangible long-lived assets impairment charges is mitigated. Specifically, the negative association between CEO compensation and tangible long-lived assets impairment charges is less pronounced (1) when CEO chairs the board, (2) when CEO is the founder of the firm, (3) when the CEO is involved in the director selection process, and (4) when overall board independence is low.

Keywords: CEO compensation, Assets Impairment, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: M41, G32, D81

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Kin Wai and Lee, Cheng-Few and Yeo, Gillian H. H., Does CEO Power Affect The Association Between CEO Compensation and Tangible Assets Impairments? (February 1, 2021). Review of Pacific Basin Financial Markets and Policies, 2021 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3888698
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
431
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies