Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Analysis of the Concept of Corporate Governance in Nigeria and the United States of America (USA)

98 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2021

Rahmah Oladejo

Independent

Date Written: August 1, 2018

Abstract

Corporate Governance is a recent global development that has attracted the attention of corporate investors, researchers, and governments. It arose out of the need to address sudden collapses and failures of big businesses and corporate bodies in every angle of today’s world.

In the last decade, there has been increased focus worldwide on corporate governance in terms of structure, processes, systems, and practices which drive the conduct of business. This is in recognition of the critical role of corporate governance in the success or otherwise of companies.
The need for renewed corporate governance in Nigeria arose out of the realization that corporate governance has not been given adequate attention it deserves in most developing countries. For instance, it is on record that many of the thirty-four Nigerian banks that had their operating license revoked between the late ‘80s and early ‘90s suffered from poor corporate governance.

The United States of America (USA) is arguably the biggest economy of the world. It is argued that it produces twenty-one percent (21%) of the total world output through millions of business firms operating in its territory. It is generally assumed that US human capital is more productive and business firms are more efficient. Thus, the US firms have been obtaining efficiency gains vis-à-vis their European and Asian competitors. This is often attributed to good corporate governance.

This study seeks to examine the level of corporate governance in Nigeria and the United States of America. The work will compare both systems in order to identify areas of difference and similarities and establish how they can be of benefit to stakeholders in both countries with a view to identifying factors that led to the collapse of businesses and corporations on account of the inapplicable methodology of Corporate Governance.

Different scholars and researchers have used both qualitative and quantitative methods in analyzing corporate governance in Nigeria. Quantitative methods are usually used in assessing the effectiveness of corporate governance on different variables such as productivity and profitability. Qualitative methods on the other hand are used to assess the effectiveness of corporate governance in preventing future collapses by analyzing previous collapses.

This study shall thus make use of the Qualitative Method. This study will be evaluating the corporate governance codes and its effectiveness in preventing future corporate collapses and scandals in Nigeria. It would compare the Nigerian corporate governance code to that of the United States as a measure of its standard and effectiveness.


Keywords: Corporate Governance, Nigeria, United States of America, Code of Corporate Governance, CSR, Corporate Social Responsibility

JEL Classification: K10, K19, K21

Suggested Citation:

Oladejo, Rahmah, Comparative Analysis of the Concept of Corporate Governance in Nigeria and the United States of America (USA) (August 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3888221 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3888221
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
S C Vance
Corporate governance: assessing corporate performance by boardroom attributes
Journal of Business Research , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 203 - 220 Posted: 1978
G Ramano , P Ferretti , M C Quirici
Corporate Governance and Efficiency of Italian Bank Holding Companies during the financial crisis: an empirical analysis
, volume 98 , p. 128 - 140 Posted: 2012
P De Andres , E Vallelado
Corporate governance in banking: the role of the board of directors
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 32 , issue 9 , p. 2570 - 2580 Posted: 2008
C Ogbechie , D Koufopoulos , N
Corporate Governance Practices in Publicly Quoted Companies in Nigeria" presented at the 4th World Congress on Corporate Governance jointly sponsored by the Management of 71 CPI Global Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,469
RANK
223,562
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies