Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax haven incorporation and financial reporting transparency

54 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2021

Christina Lewellen

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 2021

Abstract

A widespread perception exists that tax havens facilitate corporate opacity. This study provides new evidence on the association between tax havens and the transparency of firm financial reporting using a unique group of firms whose parent companies are incorporated in tax havens but whose headquarters or primary operations—that is, their base—are in nonhaven countries. While most research suggests a negative association between tax havens and transparency, I examine whether this association depends on the firm’s corporate governance environment as well as its capital market incentives. I find that the negative association is limited to firms subject to weak governance in the base country. In contrast, I find, among firms in stronger governance environments, a positive association between tax haven incorporation and transparency, which is most concentrated among firms with greater capital market incentives. My findings suggest that future researchers should use caution when assuming an unambiguous negative association between tax havens and corporate transparency. The study also provides unique evidence that tax planning can motivate higher transparency in certain settings.

Keywords: tax havens, corporate governance, transparency, tax avoidance

JEL Classification: G15, M41, H20, H2

Suggested Citation:

Lewellen, Christina, Tax haven incorporation and financial reporting transparency (January 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3888383 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3888383
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
C A Cassell , L A Myers , T A Seidel
Disclosure transparency about activity in valuation allowance and reserve accounts and accruals-based earnings management. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 46 , p. 23 - 38 Posted: 2015
Crossref
C.-W Chen , B F Hepfer , P J Quinn , R J Wilson
The effect of tax-motivated income shifting on information asymmetry
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 958 - 1004 Posted: 2018
Crossref
K.-C Chen , Q Cheng , Y C Lin , Y.-C Lin , X Xiao
Financial reporting quality of Chinese reverse merger firms: The reverse merger effect or the weak country effect?
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 5 , p. 1363 - 1390 Posted: 2016
Crossref
D W Collins , S P Kothari
An analysis of intertemporal and cross-sectional determinants of earnings response coefficients
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 11 , issue 2-3 , p. 143 - 181 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,149
RANK
253,593
3 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies