Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ex-Intrusion Corporate Cyber-Risk: Evidence from Internet Protocol Networks

Journal of Operational Risk (2021) Vol. 16, No. 3

37 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2021 Last revised: 22 Nov 2021

Bill B. Francis

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) - Lally School of Management

Wenyao Hu

Saint Mary's University; Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) - Department of Finance and Accounting

Thomas Shohfi

Wayne State University - Mike Ilitch School of Business

Date Written: March 26, 2021

Abstract

Previous event studies of corporate cyber-risk have been limited to successful attacks on public firms but are biased samples constructed based on the economic magnitude of equity losses. To address this selection bias, we construct a larger and more representative sample of cyber intrusions only to find diminished negative equity (and insignificant corporate bond) market reactions compared to these prior studies. To identify cyber-risk irrespective of observing successful attacks, we match public firms to Internet protocol (IP) network data from the American Registry for Internet Numbers (ARIN) from 1991 to 2017. We find that both stockholders and creditors incorporate external IP network size into firm value. Further, debt and equity market reactions to cyberattacks are mitigated for firms with registered IP networks and that have larger network deployments. Overall, our study demonstrates an important public data source that can help institutions proxy for and more accurately price firm cybersecurity risk.

Keywords: Bank Loans, Cyber-risk, Cybersecurity, Cyberattack, Event Study, Firm Risk, Hacking, Internet, Tobin’s Q

JEL Classification: D82, G14, G24, G32

Suggested Citation:

Francis, Bill B. and Hu, Wenyao and Hu, Wenyao and Shohfi, Thomas, Ex-Intrusion Corporate Cyber-Risk: Evidence from Internet Protocol Networks (March 26, 2021). Journal of Operational Risk (2021) Vol. 16, No. 3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3888988
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
J Abbate
Building the ARPANET: Challenges and Strategies. Inventing the Internet , p. 44 - 81 Posted: 1999
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
A S Bharadwaj , S G Bharadwaj , B R Konsynski
Information technology effects on firm performance as measured by Tobin's q
Management Science , volume 45 , issue 7 , p. 1008 - 1024 Posted: 1999
K Campbell , L A Gordon , M P Loeb , L Zhou
The economic cost of publicly announced information security breaches: empirical evidence from the stock market
Journal of Computer Security , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 431 - 448 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,568
RANK
424,948
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies