Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Hidden Value of Employee Pay Disclosures Evidenced through Cost of Capital

48 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2021

E. Scott Johnson

Vanderbilt University

Christopher Sherman

Florida Southern College

Date Written: July 2021

Abstract

Voluntary disclosure theory suggests a firm increasing its disclosures should lower the information asymmetry component of its cost of capital. However, empirical results on specific disclosures are mixed because individual disclosures may not provide enough value to investors in disclosure rich environments. Salary expense disclosures, unlike some other cost disclosures, may provide insight into increasing firm risk leading to an increased cost of capital, as employee pay has been shown to increase in response to leverage increases. We examine whether salary expense disclosures provide valuable information to investors, as measured through a disclosing firm’s cost of capital, and we find that firms that disclose salary expense receive a lowered cost of capital if they are disclosing more stable cost structures and that the value of this disclosed information relates to the relative risk associated with the disclosed cost structures. We also find the propensity for firms to initiate disclosure increases as more analysts follow the firm, and these initiating firms receive a lower cost of capital in exchange for their initial disclosure. Additionally, this lower cost of capital for initial disclosers is not based on the relative stability of the disclosed cost structure.

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, E. Scott and Sherman, Christopher, The Hidden Value of Employee Pay Disclosures Evidenced through Cost of Capital (July 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3889643 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3889643
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
588
RANK
687,436
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies