Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Supply Chain Finance: An Early Empirical Examination

51 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2021 Last revised: 9 Dec 2024

Elizabeth Chuk

University of California, Irvine

Ben Lourie

University of California, Irvine

Il Sun Yoo

University of Hawaii at Manoa - Shidler College of Business

Date Written: December 06, 2024

Abstract

This study examines supply chain finance (SCF) from the perspectives of buyers, suppliers, and capital market participants. We analyze SCF's impact on payment periods using two data sources. First, using a proprietary dataset from an SCF provider, we find that payment periods become 70% longer after buyers adopt SCF. Second, using a hand-collected sample of newly mandated disclosures, we find that SCF buyers have payment periods 71% longer than non-SCF buyers. SCF buyers allocate the cash obtained from extended payment periods to investments and dividends. Suppliers engaging with SCF buyers experience shorter days sales outstanding, higher asset turnover and ROA, and the ability to hold more inventory, indicating mutual benefits. Finally, we observe positive stock price reactions and upward analyst revisions of cash flow forecasts following SCF disclosures, consistent with market expectations of favorable outcomes. Our research contributes to the limited SCF literature and provides timely insights for various stakeholders.

Keywords: supply chain financing, reverse factoring, trade credit, accounting standards, supply chain

JEL Classification: G21, G23, L14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chuk, Elizabeth and Lourie, Ben and Yoo, Il Sun, Supply Chain Finance: An Early Empirical Examination (December 06, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3890547 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3890547
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
J S Abarbanell
Do analysts' earnings forecasts incorporate information in prior stock price changes
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 147 - 165 Posted: 1991
R Ball , S P Kothari
Financial statement analysis Posted: 1994
S P Baginski , J M Hassell
The market interpretation of management earnings forecasts as a predictor of subsequent financial analyst forecast revision
The Accounting Review , p. 175 - 190 Posted: 1990
S Basu , T Canace , M Cecchini , Y Liang
The impact of conservatism and supply chain finance on bad debt expense Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
829
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,083
RANK
67,775
2 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies