Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insider trading regulation and shorting constraints. Evaluating the joint effects of two market interventions.

36 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2021

Robert Merl

University of Graz

Thomas Stöckl

MCI - The Entrepreneurial School

Stefan Palan

University of Graz - Institute of Banking and Finance

Date Written: July 20, 2021

Abstract

Modern capital markets are subject to many interventions and regulations, some of which curtail the implementation of specific trading strategies in a market. While we understand much of these regulations’ individual effects, the picture is less clear about their joint effects. This paper considers the interaction of two regulations, namely rules limiting shorting of assets and cash, and rules limiting insider trading. For these regulations, prior research shows spikes in short-selling activity around the revelation of insider information, which different studies trace to different causes. Among other results, we find that both allowing short positions and allowing informed trading causes informed traders to increase their market activity and causes mispricing and spreads to diminish. Nevertheless, we find no evidence for significant interaction effects between the two regulations.

Keywords: Insider trading, short positions, regulation, asset market, asymmetric information, experiment

JEL Classification: C92, D82, G10, G12, G14, G40

Suggested Citation:

Merl, Robert and Stöckl, Thomas and Palan, Stefan, Insider trading regulation and shorting constraints. Evaluating the joint effects of two market interventions. (July 20, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3890173 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3890173
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Lucy F Ackert , Narat Charupat , Bryan K Church , Richard Deaves
Margin, short sell, and lotteries in experimental asset markets
Southern Economic Journal , volume 73 , issue 2 , p. 419 - 436 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Simone Alfarano , Ivan Barreda-Tarrazona , Eva Camacho-Cuena
On the role of heterogeneous and imperfect information in a laboratory financial market
Central European Journal of Operations Research , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 417 - 433 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Franklin Allen , Stephen Morris , Andrew Postlewaite
Finite bubbles with short sale constraints and asymmetric information
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 61 , issue 2 , p. 206 - 229 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Alessandro Beber , Marco Pagano
Short-selling bans around the world: Evidence from the 2007-09 crisis
Journal of Finance , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 343 - 381 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
955
RANK
791,953
1 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies