Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Narrative Conservatism

63 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2021

Juan M. García Lara

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid

Beatriz Garcia Osma

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid ; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Fengzhi Zhu

University of Glasgow

Date Written: July 20, 2021

Abstract

We define narrative conservatism as narratives reflecting bad news in a timelier, more news-consistent, and more complete manner than good news. Using a sample of Form 8-K filings from 1993 to 2020, we find that narrative disclosure is conservative. 8-Ks are filed faster, their tone is more news-consistent, and they contain more filings, items, exhibits, and graphs in response to bad news than to good news. We document higher narrative conservatism in voluntary 8-Ks and in settings where managers have more incentives to disclose bad news. In addition, we find narrative conservatism in quarterly reports as well, especially within the MD&A section and higher narrative conservatism for firms with low conditional conservatism.

Keywords: Narrative Disclosure, Narrative Conservatism, Conservatism, Timeliness, Tone, Completeness, Textual Analysis

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

García Lara, Juan Manuel and Garcia Osma, Beatriz and Zhu, Fengzhi, Narrative Conservatism (July 20, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3890187 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3890187
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO Stock Option Awards and the Timing of Corporate Voluntary Disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
A W Alford , J J Jones , M E Zmijewski
Extensions and Violations of the Statutory SEC Form 10-K Filing Requirements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , issue 1-2 , p. 229 - 254 Posted: 1994
S P Baginski , J L Campbell , L A Hinson , D S Koo
Do Career Concerns Affect the Delay of Bad News Disclosure?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 61 - 95 Posted: 2018
S P Baginski , E Demers , C Wang , J Yu
Contemporaneous verification of language: Evidence from management earnings forecasts
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 197 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,370
RANK
274,044
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies