Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An empirical examination of relative valuation of publicly listed firms using French GAAP after IFRS adoption

Poretti, C., Schatt, A., & Magnan, M. (2022). An empirical examination of relative valuation of publicly listed firms using French GAAP after IFRS adoption. Forthcoming in Comptabilité Contrôle Audit – Accounting Auditing Control, a journal of the Association Francophone de Comptabilité

31 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2021

Cédric Poretti

EHL Lausanne, HES-SO, University of Applied Sciences Western Switzerland

Date Written: July 21, 2021

Abstract

We investigate whether the mandatory adoption of IFRS by the European Union, in 2005, affects the implementation of the comparable company method when valuing firms that still apply local GAAP. The advent of IFRS severely reduces the pool of peers with local GAAP. Our analysis of 94 targets of takeover bids announced between 1999 and 2016 shows that the number of peers is reduced after 2005, but their selection is based on more criteria. Overall, economic comparability of peers increases but accounting comparability decreases. Practitioners compensate for this impaired accounting comparability by: 1) shifting to multiples that are less sensitive to accounting differences; and 2) reducing the weight of values computed with the comparable company method in the final offer price. Overall, our paper contributes to the scant literature on the economic consequences of IFRS adoption for non-adopters.

Keywords: IFRS, French GAAP, Valuation, Comparable company method, Takeover bid

Suggested Citation:

Poretti, Cédric, An empirical examination of relative valuation of publicly listed firms using French GAAP after IFRS adoption (July 21, 2021). Poretti, C., Schatt, A., & Magnan, M. (2022). An empirical examination of relative valuation of publicly listed firms using French GAAP after IFRS adoption. Forthcoming in Comptabilité Contrôle Audit – Accounting Auditing Control, a journal of the Association Francophone de Comptabilité, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3890615
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A W Alford
The effect of the set of comparable firms on the accuracy of the priceearnings valuation method
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 108 Posted: 1992
Crossref
K Ahmed , K Chalmers , H Khlif
A Meta-analysis of IFRS Adoption Effects
International Journal of Accounting , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 217 Posted: 2013
Crossref
P André , A Filip , S Marmousez
The impact of IFRS on the relationship between conservatism and investment efficiency
Comptabilité Contrôle Audit , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 101 - 124 Posted: 2014
P Asquith , M B Mikhail , A S Au
Information content of equity analyst reports
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 75 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 282 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
497
RANK
730,194
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies