Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Potential of the Dutch Corporate Governance Model for Sustainable Governance and Long Term Stakeholder Value

Erasmus Law Review, Vol. 12, No. 4, 2019

11 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2021

Manuel Lokin

Stibbe- Amsterdam

Jeroen Veldman

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Rotterdam School of Management (RSM)

Date Written: July 22, 2021

Abstract

This article addresses the question of how the Dutch regulatory and institutional setting enables policy coherence, specifically with regard to safeguarding stakeholders’ interests and promoting sustainable governance. To address this question, we engage with idiosyncratic theoretical notions in the Dutch corporate governance model. We follow the evolution of these notions in statutory company law and case law, their development in the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and their relation to the Enterprise Chamber as a unique institution. We establish how these theoretical views and practical institutions present significant means by which stakeholder concerns may be represented in the operation of company law and corporate governance more broadly and provide a number of ways in which these institutions and their operation can be further developed.


Keywords: orporate governance, company law, stakeholders, Dutch Corporate Governance Code, long-termism

Suggested Citation:

Lokin, Manuel and Veldman, Jeroen, The Potential of the Dutch Corporate Governance Model for Sustainable Governance and Long Term Stakeholder Value (July 22, 2021). Erasmus Law Review, Vol. 12, No. 4, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3891688
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
A A Berle , G C Means
The Modern Corporation and Private Property Posted: 1932
O Weinstein , Firm
Property and Governance: From Berle and Means to the Agency Theory, and Beyond
) Accounting, Economics, and Law , volume 2 , p. 1 - 55 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M M Blair , L A Stout
A Team Production Theory of Corporate Law
Virginia Law Review , volume 85 , issue 2 , p. 247 - 328 Posted: 1999
Crossref
S Deakin
Corporation as Commons: Rethinking Property Rights, Governance and Sustainability in the Business Enterprise
The Queen's LJ , volume 37 , p. 339 - 81 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
604
RANK
631,426
1 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies