Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Market Orientation Lead to Firm Performance? Exploring the Mechanisms and Boundary Conditions

Posted: 24 Aug 2021

Patrick Akanpaaba

Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Kumasi, Ghana

Ahmed Agyapong

KNUST School of Business

Henry Mensah

Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Ghana

Samuel Yaw Akomea

Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Ghana

Date Written: June 21, 2021

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to explore the mechanisms and boundary conditions that will enhance the effective transformation of the market orientation (MO) of the firm into firm market performance (PERF). We examined how MO influences PERF directly and indirectly through the new product development capability (NPDC) of the firm. We also examined the indirect conditional effect of social capital (SC) on the MO-PERF relationship through NPDC of the firm. Data from 313 managers and owners of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in Ghana was used for the study. Data was analyzed using the conditional process analysis software, PROCESS in SPSS 23.0. Findings indicate that MO has a significant influence on PERF. Further, NPDC partially mediates the relationship between MO and PERF. We also found the indirect relationship between MO and PERF to be declining at higher levels of SC. We discussed the implication of the study’s findings for theory and practice.

Keywords: Social Capital, Emerging Economy, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs), Market Orientation, New Product Development Capability, Firm Performance

JEL Classification: M

Suggested Citation:

Akanpaaba, Patrick and Agyapong, Ahmed and Mensah, Henry and Akomea, Samuel Yaw, Does Market Orientation Lead to Firm Performance? Exploring the Mechanisms and Boundary Conditions (June 21, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3892136 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3892136
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
459
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies