Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Fighter Ace and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act

Internal Auditing, 2021, 36(2), 10-20, 2021

23 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2021

Stefan Linnhoff

Murray State University - College of Business

Katherine Taken Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-College of Business

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) had a transformative effect on the operations of United States public companies, prohibiting bribery of foreign officials and requiring adequate internal controls. A pivotal event leading to the new law involved Lockheed’s actions in Germany, notably, sales of their F-104 Starfighter. A major opponent to the F-104 was Erich Hartmann, a former German fighter pilot, who attained recognition as the greatest fighter ace in history. His objections to the F-104 brought public attention to Lockheed and to government officials in Germany. This paper examines how corruption affects economic activity, the FCPA and its connection to German fighter ace, Erich Hartmann, and a brief history of Germany from World War II to the present. This examination is highly relevant to internal auditors and corporate managers by increasing their understanding of the impact of corruption in countries where their companies operate and of the events leading to the world’s most important anti-corruption law.

Keywords: Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, FCPA, bribery, multinational business, Erich Hartmann

JEL Classification: F23, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Linnhoff, Stefan and Smith, Katherine Taken and Smith, Murphy, A Fighter Ace and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (2021). Internal Auditing, 2021, 36(2), 10-20, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3892468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
The Armistice with France was signed in a railway carriage at Compiegne Forest on June 22 and in effect
Timeline of Key Events in World War II and Erich Hartmann's Military Career Posted: 1939-09-01
The Japanese Imperial Navy wins a tactical victory in its sneak attack on the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. US losses include 2,335 killed 1,143 wounded, 4 battleships sunk, and 188 aircraft destroyed. Japanese losses include 64 killed, 1 captured, and 29 aircraft destroyed
Germany, its Axis partners, and Finland launch invasion of the Soviet Union, called Operation Barbarossa Posted: 1941-12-05
Battle of Kasserine Pass. In this first major battle between the US and German troops, the Axis achieve a tactical victory. Yet, the US learns valuable lessons and makes major changes in commanders and tactics Posted: 1943-07-24
Battle of the Philippine Sea. US naval forces attain victory over the Imperial Japanese Navy in the largest carrier-versus-carrier battle in history, involving 24 aircraft carriers and 1,350 carrier-based aircraft
Out of ammo, God save the King , volume 1 , p. 17 - 26 Posted: 1944-06-04
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
847
RANK
662,989
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies