Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Accounting Jobs Miserable?

64 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2021 Last revised: 20 Mar 2025

Paul E. Madsen

University of Florida

Jeffery Piao

University of Missouri at Columbia - School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 23, 2021

Abstract

The accounting profession is sustained by an ongoing supply of recruits, who must be highly capable to complete the training required of new accountants, and who choose accounting from a large menu of alternative careers. What do they want from the profession in return? Answers to this question are important because they can offer explanations for recent declines in accounting degree enrollments and CPA Exam candidates, offering insights that could guide effective interventions. Understanding how accountants feel about their jobs is complicated by the facts that accounting jobs are dissimilar from alternatives and that accountants are dissimilar from non-accountants. Much of the existing evidence about what makes an average person happy or miserable is, therefore, unlikely to be straightforwardly applicable to accountants. Using several large, publicly available datasets describing random samples of Americans, including large samples of accountants, we empirically study which individual-level traits are associated with self-selection into accounting, how this non-random sorting of people into accounting careers influences which job attributes accountants consider most important, and which attributes have the power to make them miserable. We find that accountants are particularly resilient to job attributes such as repetition and limited physical activity, that average Americans dislike. Compared to non-accountants, accountants’ job satisfaction is 21% more sensitive to satisfaction with their pay and 29% less sensitive to the job’s contribution to society. One implication of our findings is that stagnation of entry-level pay is likely a particularly potent threat to the ongoing supply of accounting recruits. 

Keywords: Job Satisfaction, Person/Environment Fit, Audit Firm Recruiting, Career Selection, Accounting Pipeline

JEL Classification: I31, J24, J28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Madsen, Paul E. and Piao, Jeffery, Are Accounting Jobs Miserable? (July 23, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3892354 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3892354
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
Aicpa References
Trends in the Supply of Accounting Graduates and the Demand for Public Accounting Recruits. AICPA & CIMA. 2024. Tacking change in an uncertain environment: 2024 PCPS CPA Firm Top Issues Survey Posted: 2019
G A Akerlof , A K Rose , J L Yellen
Job switching and job satisfaction in the US labor market
Brookings Paper on Economic Activity , volume 2 , p. 495 - 594 Posted: 1988
K D Allee , C Do , F G Raymundo
Principal Component Analysis and Factor Analysis in Accounting Research
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 2022
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
487
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,287
RANK
133,846
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies