Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disrupting the Disruptors? The 'Going Public Process' in Transition

31 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2021

Aswath Damodaran

New York University - Stern School of Business; New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Date Written: July 14, 2021

Abstract

For decades, private companies planning to enter public markets have used bankers operating as intermediaries, helping them decide on issue timing and pricing, and in meeting disclosure requirements. That banker-led process has always had inefficiencies, but without clear alternatives, companies had to accept the high costs and the money left on the table on the offering date, as bankers set offering prices well below market prices, and rewarded preferred clients. The IPO process is being disrupted by three major changes. First, companies are waiting longer to go public, and are focusing more on scaling up revenues than on building business models that deliver profits, while private. Second, the investor base for IPOs is shifting, from primarily institutional, to include more retail investors, many of whom are young, and get their investing cues more from social media than from roadshows. Third, there are alternatives emerging to the banker-led process, with a few turning to direct listings and many more, especially in the last two years, using special purpose acquisition companies (SPACs). These alternatives clearly are works in progress, and need improvement, but change is coming. In the final part of the paper, we look at disclosures that companies are required to make when they go public, and argue that they not only suffer from bloat, but are not in sync with changes that have occurred in both the companies going public, and those who trade their shares in the immediate aftermath of going public. We argue for reducing disclosure bulk and an easing of restrictions on companies making projections about the future, since these restrictions actually make it easier for companies to sell pie-in-the-sky stories.

Suggested Citation:

Damodaran, Aswath, Disrupting the Disruptors? The 'Going Public Process' in Transition (July 14, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3892419 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3892419
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Michael Dambra , Omri Even-Tov , Kimberlyn Munevar
Are SPAC Revenue Forecasts Informative?
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 7 , p. 121 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,705
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,113
RANK
23,854
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies