Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Company Philosophy and its Reputation Through an Analysis of the MERCO Ranking

European Accounting and Management Review, 7(3), 40-52, May 2021

13 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2021

José Daniel Barquero Cabrero

Fundación Universitaria ESERP, España

Mercedes Cancelo

University of Málaga, UVM, ESERP, ECSSR

Date Written: May 31, 2021

Abstract

Social responsibility has been incorporated as a fundamental aspect in the structuring of large organizations. It is inevitable from a communicative and social interpretation perspective of organizations, not to observe them as socially incorporated entities and active agents in society. In the last two decades there has been not only an advance in the theoretical conceptualization of social responsibility, but also a normative and strategic design of the implementation of SR in companies. In the present investigation, a comparative study is presented that analyzes the development and execution of Social Responsibility in Spanish and Mexican companies. For this, the index based on Corporate Reputation Corporate Monitoring (MERCO Ranking) will be taken as a basis, selecting those considered as the ten best companies positioned in Spain and Mexico. The objective of the study is to determine the coherence of the MERCO Reputation Index with the theoretical concept of social responsibility. As well as determining the real role of the SR in the organizational philosophy and the materialization of it.

Keywords: MERCO, Social responsability, Organitzational philosophy, Mexico, Spain

Suggested Citation:

Barquero Cabrero, José Daniel and Cancelo, Mercedes, Company Philosophy and its Reputation Through an Analysis of the MERCO Ranking (May 31, 2021). European Accounting and Management Review, 7(3), 40-52, May 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3892035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
J D Barquero
Relaciones Públicas estratégicas Posted: 2006
Z Bauman
Vida de consumo
Fondo de Cultura Económica , p. 8 - 166 Posted: 2007
M Cancelo , J Barquero , D
Posted: 2018
A Cortina
Ética en la empresa. Claves para una nueva cultura empresarial Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
655
RANK
560,264
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies