Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Debt Management on Corporate Financial Performance of Lafarge Africa PLC (2010-2021)

22 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2022

Uchechi Great Ibe

Ignatius Ajuru University of Education

Wonders Ebimotimimowei Pibowei

Ignatius Ajuru University of Education; Renaissance University Enugu

Date Written: July 18, 2022

Abstract

The purpose of the study is to investigate the effect of debt management on the corporate financial performance of Lafarge Africa Plc. An expo-facto research design with four objectives and one baseline theory anchored this empirical paper. The study covered a population of thirteen years from 2009 to 2021, and a sample size of ten years covering from 2010 to 2019, using an interval scale of measurement and preceding year basis of sampling. The study used secondary data, obtained from the published annual reports and accounts of Lafarge Africa Plc. The study adopted univariate analysis, bivariate analysis, and OLS model for data analysis with MS Excel 2019 and SPSS Statistics 20. The study found that there is no significant relationship between debt to assets ratio and return on assets, no significant relationship between debt to assets ratio and return on equity, no significant relationship between debt to equity ratio and return on assets, and no significant relationship between debt to equity ratio and return on equity of Lafarge Africa Plc. The study concluded that keeping a higher debt to assets ratio might affect the credit rating of management and increase the cost of accounts payable and discount offerings; and that keeping a higher debt to equity ratio might force the board to sell non-current assets at scrap against liquidation, which negatively affect their financial performance. The study recommended that: Lafarge Africa Plc should maintain a lower debt to assets ratio and lower debt to equity ratio so as to improve its annual returns, based on its debt reduction policy.

Keywords: capital structure, debt management, financial performance, cement sector

Suggested Citation:

Ibe, Uchechi Great and Pibowei, Wonders Ebimotimimowei, The Effect of Debt Management on Corporate Financial Performance of Lafarge Africa PLC (2010-2021) (July 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3893593 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3893593
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
P A Abolo , E Thankgod , B Nwankwo
Effect of capital structure on profitability of the firm -a study of selected insurance firms in Port-Harcourt
IAUE Journal of Accounting and Business , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 37 - 54 Posted: 2016
G A N Ama
Advanced financial accounting & reporting standards Posted: 2015
Y Babatunde , O Akinwunmi , I Khadijah , S Yusuf
Capital structure and profitability of quoted firms: the Nigerian perspective
Vienna 10th International Academic Conference Posted: 2000
A Bukar , D Habila
Impact of ownership structure on firm performance -evidence from deposit money banks in Nigeria
Nigerian Journal of Accounting Research , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 32 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
676
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,004
RANK
88,471
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies