Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyst Forecasts, Managerial Learning, and Corporate Investments

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming

Posted: 28 Jul 2021 Last revised: 30 Mar 2023

Yaqin Hu

McMaster University

Yuan Zhang

University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: November 18, 2020

Abstract

Building on prior results that financial analysts have an information advantage relative to managers at the macroeconomic level, we show that such an information advantage is an important source of what managers learn from analysts in making investment decisions. Specifically, the sensitivity of corporate capital investment to analyst forecasts of firm earnings or long-term growth is positively associated with the exposure of a firm’s operations to macroeconomic factors, including the business cycle and energy prices. This effect is concentrated among firms whose analysts have greater macro-level insights or firms that have higher capital intensity and hence stronger incentives to learn. Overall, our results suggest that managers learn from analysts regarding the implications of macroeconomic factors for firm-specific prospects and incorporate what they learn into their capital investment decisions.

Keywords: capital investment; managerial learning; analyst forecasts; macroeconomic information

JEL Classification: D83, G31

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Yaqin and Zhang, Yuan, Analyst Forecasts, Managerial Learning, and Corporate Investments (November 18, 2020). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3893809
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
643
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies