Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Against Corporate Activism: Examining the Use of Corporate Speech to Promote Corporate Social Responsibility

Oklahoma Law Review, Vol. 74, 2022

74 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2021 Last revised: 9 May 2022

W.C. Bunting

Stetson University - College of Law

Date Written: July 26, 2021

Abstract

This Article offers a novel typography of expenditures on corporate social responsibility highlighting that such spending often requires a public business corporation to engage in corporate speech. When this speech pertains to social or political issues unrelated to the company’s business, this Article argues that such expenditures are generally not in the best interests of the firm’s stockholders, and terms this spending “corporate activism.” Corporate activism is described as the product of agency costs and ideological conflict that derive from an expansion of corporate speech rights under the First Amendment. To protect shareholders from corporate activism, courts have relied upon various disciplining mechanisms that are often not up to the task. This Article offers a different solution, placing the responsibility squarely upon the board of directors of public corporations to limit “expressive” expenditures on corporate social responsibility that do not directly advance the best interests of a company’s shareholders. As a tentative policy proposal, this Article suggests that the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) require all public companies that trade on stock exchanges in the United States to have a “Communications Committee” responsible for the oversight of all forms of corporate speech.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Corporate Social Responsibility, Corporate Speech, Agency Costs, Corporate Activism, Ideological Conflict, Communications

JEL Classification: G34, K22, L21

Suggested Citation:

Bunting, William, Against Corporate Activism: Examining the Use of Corporate Speech to Promote Corporate Social Responsibility (July 26, 2021). Oklahoma Law Review, Vol. 74, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3893628 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3893628
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
E G See , E Robert , Mcdonald
The Interplay between Advertising and Society: An Historical Analysis
J. MACROMARKETING , volume 1 Posted: 2020
Rachel Barton , E T Al
pdf; see also Justin Racine, Using Human Emotion as a Conduit for Connection in Branding and Advertising , volume 6 Posted: 2018
J. BRAND STRATEGY , volume 423 Posted: 2021
See Simon , Chadwick , Sarah Zipp , Nike , Colin Kaepernick
and the Pitfalls of 'Woke' Corporate Branding, CONVERSATION Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
920
RANK
424,948
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies