Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Connections, Financial Constraints, and Corporate Taxation

70 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2021 Last revised: 29 Apr 2022

Ke Na

Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Youan Wang

Xiamen University - Wang Yanan Institute for Studies in Economics (WISE); The University of Hong Kong

Zigan Wang

Tsinghua University; The University of Hong Kong - School of Economics and Finance; Columbia University

Date Written: March 1, 2021

Abstract

We argue that the greater tax planning of politically connected firms documented in prior literature depends critically on firms' financial conditions, because political connections help financially constrained firms access external financing and consequently reduce their incentives to use tax planning as a source of internal financing. We find that after a plausibly exogenous increase in political connections, although financially unconstrained firms increase their tax planning, constrained firms decrease it. Moreover, constrained firms are more likely to obtain new external debt financing and their costs of debt are also lower after increased political connections. Importantly, the decreases in tax planning are more pronounced for constrained firms with new external debt, and when the connected politicians serve on the banking-related committees. Taken together, our paper highlights the importance of financial constraints in understanding the tax planning of politically connected firms.

Keywords: Political connections, corporate tax planning, financial constraints, external financing

Suggested Citation:

Na, Ke and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J. and WANG, Youan and Wang, Zigan, Political Connections, Financial Constraints, and Corporate Taxation (March 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3893274 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3893274
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
298
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,897
RANK
233,304
2 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies