Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Boardroom Network and Corporate Performance: When Who You Know Contributes to What You Know

58 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2021 Last revised: 13 Jan 2023

Inna Abramova

London Business School

Date Written: January 13, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines a difficult-to-measure and unobservable concept of information-sharing between directors. I measure the prominence of the board’s information-sharing in the boardroom network with boardroom centrality and study its role in the firm’s performance. Using an instrumental variable approach based on director deaths at distant firms in the boardroom network, I isolate the effect of boardroom centrality on firm performance from the confounding factors and find that boardroom centrality deteriorates firm performance on average, relative to the less central network firms. This deterioration is particularly strong for firms with R&D expenditures, intangible assets, advertising activity, and firms closely connected through the network to peers with similar products. Concurrently, firms with no advertising activity and those located remotely from peers with similar products in the network benefit from boardroom centrality. Therefore, the trade-off between the benefits of information collection from the boardroom network and the costs stemming from the dissemination of sensitive information to the rest of the network leads to a negative effect of boardroom centrality when the receivers of this information can quickly benefit from it (e.g., firms with similar products) and when firms have large amounts of proprietary information. Moreover, competition strengthens the negative impact of boardroom centrality on firm performance because the timely adoption of effective policies is highly important in competitive industries. This paper adds to the literature on directors’ value, suggesting that the role of boardroom centrality is nuanced, and provides a research design that can isolate the centrality effects in various other applications.

Keywords: boardroom network, performance, network centrality, information diffusion, proprietary costs, product similarity, competition

JEL Classification: G34, L14, L25

Suggested Citation:

Abramova, Inna, Boardroom Network and Corporate Performance: When Who You Know Contributes to What You Know (January 13, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3894533 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3894533
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M Weisbach
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
J D Angrist , A B Krueger
Instrumental Variables and the Search for Identification: From Supply and Demand to Natural Experiments
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , p. 69 - 85 Posted: 2001
J D Angrist , J Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
236
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,224
RANK
296,056
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies