Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Data Analytics, Pressure, and Self-Determination: Experimental Evidence from Internal Auditors

47 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2021

Eddy Cardinaels

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management; KU Leuven

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Amin S. Sofla

KU Leuven - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: July 29, 2021

Abstract

Internal auditors are increasingly expected to review significant amounts of information while
working under pressure. Leading figures in the organization may put pressure on the internal audit
processes, reducing the auditor’s autonomy. Recent insights suggest that internal auditors who
score higher on the trait self-determination perform better in complex tasks but their performance
can be impaired when they experience significant pressure from leading figures in the
organization. One way to reduce the amount of cognitive resources needed to perform a task is
through the use of decision aids such as audit analytics. The present study examines the impact of
the availability of audit analytics, pressure by the CFO, and the internal auditor’s level of the self determination trait. Our results suggest that the level of self-determination is positively related to
performance. However, the CFO’s performance pressure undermines the relationship between
self-determination and performance for individuals with high self-determination. Interestingly, the
introduction of audit analytics appears to remove the detrimental effect of pressure on the
performance of highly self-determined auditors. Thus, while our results suggest that performance relevant traits such as self-determination might not improve performance in certain contexts, audit
analytics might protect performance against these challenges.

Keywords: Internal Audit; Data Analytics; Pressure; Self-determination, Task Complexity

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34, M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Cardinaels, Eddy and Eulerich, Marc and Salimi Sofla, Amin, Data Analytics, Pressure, and Self-Determination: Experimental Evidence from Internal Auditors (July 29, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3895796 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3895796
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
S A Ahmad
Internal auditors and internal whistleblowing intentions: A study of organizational, individual, situational and demographic factors Posted: 2011
L S Aiken , S G West , R R Reno
Multiple regression: Testing and interpreting interactions Posted: 1991
S K Asare , R A Davidson , A A Gramling
Internal auditors' evaluation of fraud factors in planning an audit: The importance of audit committee quality and management incentives
International Journal of Auditing , volume 12 , p. 181 - 203 Posted: 2008
Crossref
P P Baard , E L Deci , R M Ryan
Intrinsic need satisfaction: a motivational basis of performance and well-being in two work settings
Journal of Applied Social Psychology , volume 34 , issue 10 , p. 2045 - 68 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Vivek Shivram
AUDITING WITH AI: A THEORETICAL FRAMEWORK FOR APPLYING MACHINE LEARNING ACROSS THE INTERNAL AUDIT LIFECYCLE
EDPACS , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 22 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Marc Eulerich , Adi Masli , Jeffrey Pickerd , David A. Wood
The Impact of Audit Technology on Audit Task Outcomes: Evidence for Technology‐Based Audit Techniques*
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 2 , p. 981 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,084
RANK
285,293
2 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies