Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Mergers and Acquisitions in Higher Education and Challenges Faced: A Review of the Literature

23 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2021

Stephanie Austin-Campbell

Gardner-Webb University, Business Division

Date Written: July 19, 2021

Abstract

When two firms consolidate to form a new conglomerate, this is commonly known as a merger. When a firm acquires a new firm and retains the name, identity, and assets, this is what is known as an acquisition. Mergers and acquisitions (M&A) have taken place throughout American history. Industries such as hospitals, business corporations, and educational institutions have joined forces for various reasons – both friendly and forcefully - to expand their growth opportunities. The transformative environment of higher education dictates that progressive institutions consider mergers and acquisitions within the confines of rebranding to improve organizational sustenance.
Past researchers have studied and tested the theoretical framework to assess the acculturation of merging two academic establishments into one firm. In the past decade, M&A has become more prominent in non-profit and higher education arenas. The research shows that both friendly and hostile takeovers have legal, cultural, and economic consequences in both the business and academic fields. This paper will explore the challenges and the impact of M&A on higher educational institutions, and we will seek to investigate if the effects of M&A impair or improves the overall performance of the organization.
 


Keywords: Mergers, Takeovers, Acquisitions, Hostile, Education

Suggested Citation:

Austin-Campbell, Stephanie, The Impact of Mergers and Acquisitions in Higher Education and Challenges Faced: A Review of the Literature (July 19, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3895365 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3895365
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
A Arikan , R Stulz
Corporate acquisitions, diversification, and the firm's life cycle
The Journal of Finance , volume 71 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 193 Posted: 2016-05-29
Crossref
J R Boling , T M Donna , M M Helms
Complementarity merger as a driver of change and growth in higher education
Journal of Organizational Change Management , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 42 Posted: 2017
Crossref
H Bor , R Shargel
The merger of baltimore hebrew university with towson university: Three leadership models converge
The International Journal of Educational Management , volume 34 , issue 10 , p. 1595 - 1613 Posted: 2020
Crossref
S Chen , C Huang , C Lin
Observational learning from acquisition outcomes of innovation leaders
Financial Management , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 487 - 522 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
336
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,384
RANK
204,782
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies