Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Preparers' Construction of Users' Information Needs in Corporate Reporting: A Case Study

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 56, European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2021 Last revised: 29 Jul 2022

Kathrin Oberwallner

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Christoph Pelger

University of Passau; University of Innsbruck; NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Thorsten Sellhorn

Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitaet (LMU) Munich; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: July 29, 2021

Abstract

This paper studies how preparers assess users’ information needs and preferences, and how these constructions relate to preparers’ reporting decisions. Drawing on interviews as well as other internal and external data, our qualitative case study focuses on a prominent annual report restructuring at the large industrial firm Siemens. Employing the theoretical framework of institu-tional logics allows us to trace how Siemens’ changing context influenced the ways in which actors dynamically reconsidered the meaning and purpose of the annual report. We document how the previously coexisting compliance and stakeholder logics gave way to a dominant capital market logic, which required Siemens actors – similar to standard setters – to construct the notion of ‘use-fulness’ for capital providers. Constructing users as vulnerable to disclosure overload and inter-ested in the annual report only as a confirmatory tool, Siemens transformed the annual report into a concise compliance document. We conclude that changes in corporate reporting reflect dynamic shifts and reinterpretations of institutional logics shaped by firm-specific contextual factors.

Keywords: annual report, corporate reporting, decision usefulness, institutional logics, users

Suggested Citation:

Oberwallner, Kathrin and Pelger, Christoph and Sellhorn, Thorsten, Preparers' Construction of Users' Information Needs in Corporate Reporting: A Case Study (July 29, 2021). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 56, European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3895552 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3895552
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
D Alexander
Legal certainty, European-ness and realpolitik
Europe , volume 3 , p. 65 - 80 Posted: 2006
A Amel-Zadeh , A Scherf , E F Soltes
Creating firm disclosures
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2019
M Arena , G Azzone , F Mapelli
What drives the evolution of corporate social responsibility strategies? An institutional logics perspective
Journal of Cleaner Production , volume 171 , p. 345 - 355 Posted: 2018
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Load more
2 Citations
Katharina Hombach , Thorsten Sellhorn
Does Every Accounting Issue Need a Solution?
TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 84 · 35 Pages · Posted: 3 May 2022 · Downloads: 162
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rolf Uwe Fülbier , Thorsten Sellhorn
Understanding and Improving the Language of Business – How Corporate Reporting Research Can Better Serve Business and Society
TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 97, 2022 · 44 Pages · Posted: 3 Aug 2022 · Last revised: 6 Sep 2022 · Downloads: 181
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
805
RANK
596,846
2 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies