Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do firms practicing integrated reporting engage in less myopic behavior? International evidence on opportunistic earnings management

Corporate Governance: An International Review

Posted: 2 Aug 2021

Ava Wu

Zhejiang University - School of Management

Shan Zhou

The University of Sydney

Date Written: July 12, 2021

Abstract

Manuscript Type: Empirical

Research Question/Issue: Earnings management is often perceived as a typical response to managers’ short-term objectives at the expense of long-term benefits. However, this is not aligned with the most recent development in corporate reportingintegrated reporting (IR)which encourages long-term orientation and a trustworthy, honest, and ethical corporate culture. We thus examine whether firms practicing IR to a greater extent exhibit lower levels of earnings management.

Research Findings/Insights: Using multiple IR measures and an international sample of 19,926 firm-year observations from 2008–2015, we document that while firms practicing IR engage in less accrual-based earnings management, they do resort to real activities earnings management. Such opportunistic earnings management behavior is most pronounced when firms’ incentive to manage earnings is high. We also show that opportunistic earnings management behavior is moderated in countries and regions where IR is mandatory, where capital markets are more developed, and where financial reporting is less frequent.

Theoretical/Academic Implications: Our study contributes to the growing literature on whether IR is an effective governance tool in constraining earnings management behavior. The results show that the institutional environment plays an essential role in enabling corporate reporting initiatives such as IR to affect substantive internal changes rather than being used opportunistically.

Practitioner/Policy Implications: Firms that practice IR to a greater extent are associated with a lower level of earnings management in countries where IR is mandatory, which contributes to the policy debate on mandating IR.


Keywords: Corporate governance, integrated reporting (IR), earnings management, corporate social responsibility (CSR), institutional environment

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Ava and Zhou, Shan, Do firms practicing integrated reporting engage in less myopic behavior? International evidence on opportunistic earnings management (July 12, 2021). Corporate Governance: An International Review , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3895493
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
418
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies