Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Audit Committee, Board of Commissioners Size on Social Responsibility Disclosure with CEO Tenure as Moderating Variable

European Journal of Business and Innovation Research 2021, Vol.9, No.3, pp. 38-50

13 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2021

Yana Rochdiana Hadiyat

Trisakti University

Muhammad Nuryatno

Trisakti University - Faculty of Economic and Business (FEB)

Date Written: July 30, 2021

Abstract

Its capacity is to demonstrate the effect of the Review Council , the Leading group of Chiefs on the revelation of Corporate Social Duty with President Residency as the directing variable. The populace in this investigation are organizations recorded on the Indonesia Stock Trade (IDX). The examining procedure utilized is purposive inspecting. The sort of information utilized in this examination is optional information. The consequences of the investigation show that the impact of the Review Advisory group and the Size of the Leading body of Chiefs affects Divulgence of Corporate Social Obligation, yet President Residency doesn't reinforce this impact.

Keywords: audit committee, board size, CEO tenure, audit quality, firms’ size, ROA

Suggested Citation:

Hadiyat, Yana Rochdiana and Nuryatno, Muhammad, Effect of Audit Committee, Board of Commissioners Size on Social Responsibility Disclosure with CEO Tenure as Moderating Variable (July 30, 2021). European Journal of Business and Innovation Research 2021, Vol.9, No.3, pp. 38-50, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3896360
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Online) , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 38 - 50 Posted: 2021
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management , volume 59 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
A Aprianingsih , A N Yushita
Pengaruh Penerapan Good Corporate Governance, Struktur Kepemilikan, dan Ukuran Perusahaan Terhadap Kinerja Keuangan Perbankan
Jurnal Profita Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
307
RANK
572,087
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies