Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Carbon Risk Matter for Corporate Acquisition Decisions?

Journal of Corporate Finance, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcorpfin.2021.102058

51 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2021

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Kristina Minnick

Bentley University

Syed Shams

University of Southern Queensland

Date Written: July 31, 2021

Abstract

In this study, we examine whether carbon risk matters in acquisitions. Using a firm’s carbon emissions to proxy for carbon risk, we examine whether an acquirer’s level of carbon emissions is related to the decision to engage in acquisitions and achieve subsequent acquisition returns. The results show that firms with higher emissions have an increased likelihood of acquiring foreign targets while, at the same time, having a decreased likelihood of acquiring domestic targets. Acquirers with large carbon footprints seek out targets in foreign countries that have low gross domestic product (GDP) or weak environmental, regulatory, or governance standards. We also examine the relationship between carbon emissions and announcement returns. We find that cross-border acquisition announcement returns are higher when acquirers with high carbon emissions acquire targets in countries with fewer regulations or weaker environmental standards. Focusing on the interplay of corporate social responsibility (CSR) and carbon emissions, we find that investors censure acquirers that promote CSR while having high carbon emissions, thus resulting in worse abnormal returns. This is particularly the case if the target country is wealthy or has stronger country governance or strong environmental protection. Our findings add insight on the channels through which a focus on reducing carbon risk can add value for shareholders.

Keywords: Carbon emissions, Mergers and acquisitions, Corporate governance, Acquisition announcement returns

Suggested Citation:

Bose, Sudipta and Minnick, Kristina and Shams, Syed, Does Carbon Risk Matter for Corporate Acquisition Decisions? (July 31, 2021). Journal of Corporate Finance, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcorpfin.2021.102058, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3896952
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
P Asquith , R F Bruner , D W Mullins
The gains to bidding firms from merger
J. Finan. Econ , volume 11 , p. 121 - 139 Posted: 1983
Crossref
R Bansal , M Ochoa , D Kiku
Climate change and growth risks Posted: 2017
Crossref
R Bauer , K Koedijk , R Otten
International evidence on ethical mutual fund performance and investment style
J. Bank. Financ , volume 29 , p. 1751 - 1767 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Bénabou , J Tirole
Individual and corporate social responsibility
Economica , volume 77 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
371
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,492
RANK
183,491
59 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies