Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examining Anti-Corruption Disclosures, Profitability and Financial Stability Among Extractive Firms in Africa

MPhil Thesis, University of Ghana

119 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2021 Last revised: 30 Nov 2021

King C.T. Duho

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 30, 2020

Abstract

This study examines the determinants of anti-corruption disclosures and the effect of disclosures on the profitability and financial stability of extractive firms in Africa. The study also tests the presence of convergence in anti-corruption disclosure, profitability, and financial stability of the firms. The study uses an unbalanced panel data of 27 firms operating in 5 African countries covering the period 2006 to 2018. The data was collected from different corporate reports of the firms that form part of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) database. The study uses a composite index to measure overall disclosure and individual items are coded as binary. Profitability is measured using the return on asset and return on equity while the z-score measures financial stability. The study uses panel logistic regression for binary dependent variables and panel corrected standard error regression/random effect regression for continuous variables. The results indicate that the determinants of anti-corruption disclosure are: membership in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative, multinational enterprise status, corruption perception index, and human development index. Specifically, UNGC membership and multinational status enhance the disclosure on corruption analysis while countries with a high prevalence of corruption have firms that report more on corruption analysis. Disclosure on corruption training is high among firms that are UNGC signatories, countries with a high human development index, and countries with a high prevalence of corruption. There is a weak effect of firm-level, industry-level, and country-level factors on disclosures on corruption response. There is evidence that corruption disclosure reduces the financial stability of firms. Disclosures on corruption analysis and corruption training are the main factors driving the reduction in financial stability. The effect on profitability is not significant except in the case of disclosure on corruption response which also reduces profitability. There is strong statistical evidence to suggest that anti-corruption disclosure, profitability, and financial stability of extractive firms converge. The study has relevant implications for practitioners, policymakers, and the academic community. It is very beneficial to the GRI Secretariat and other sustainability standard setters. The study uses data that is skewed towards large extractive firms. This study is premier in exploring the nexus between anti-corruption disclosure, profitability, and financial stability in extractive firms in Africa. It is also unique in providing a test of both beta and sigma convergence among the firms.

Keywords: Institutional theory, Global Reporting Initiative, Convergence, Anti-corruption disclosure, United Nations Global Compact, Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative

JEL Classification: D73, G32, L25, L71, L72,N17, O13

Suggested Citation:

Duho, King C.T., Examining Anti-Corruption Disclosures, Profitability and Financial Stability Among Extractive Firms in Africa (June 30, 2020). MPhil Thesis, University of Ghana, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3896916 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3896916
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
157 References
R V Aguilera , A K Vadera
The dark side of authority: Antecedents, mechanisms, and outcomes of organizational corruption
Journal of business ethics , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 431 - 449 Posted: 2008
A Argandoña
Private-to-private corruption
Journal of business ethics , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 253 - 267 Posted: 2003
A Argandoña
Corruption and companies: The use of facilitating payments
Journal of business ethics , volume 60 , issue 3 , p. 251 - 264 Posted: 2005
A Argandoña
The handbook of business and corruption: Cross-sectoral experiences , p. 49 - 70 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
926
RANK
420,501
157 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies