Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate governance and generalist CEOs: Evidence from board size

25 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2021

Pattanaporn Chatjuthamard

Sasin GIBA

Viput Ongsakul

NIDA Business School, National Institute of Development Administration (NIDA)

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Ali Uyar

La Rochelle Business School

Date Written: July 30, 2021

Abstract

Purpose

We contribute to the debate in the literature about generalist CEOs by exploring the effect of board governance on CEO general managerial ability, focusing on one of the most crucial aspects of the board of directors, board size. Prior research shows that smaller boards constitute a more effective governance mechanism and therefore are expected to reduce agency costs.

Design/Methodology/Approach

We estimate the effect of board size on CEO general managerial ability, using a fixed-effects regression analysis, propensity score matching, as well as an instrumental-variable analysis. These techniques mitigate endogeneity greatly and make our results much more likely to show causality.

Findings

Our results show that firms with smaller board size are more likely to hire generalist CEOs. Specifically, a decline in board size by one standard deviation raises CEO general managerial ability by 15.62%. A lack of diverse experiences in a small board with fewer directors makes it more necessary to hire a CEO with a broad range of professional experiences. Furthermore, the agency costs associated with generalist CEOs are greatly diminished in firms with a smaller board. Hence, firms with a smaller board are more inclined to hire generalist CEOs.

Originality

Although prior research has explored the effects of board size on various corporate outcomes, strategies, and policies, our study is the first to investigate the effect of board size on CEO general managerial ability. Our study contributes to the literature both in corporate governance and on CEO general managerial ability.



Keywords: CEO general managerial ability, board size, corporate governance, generalist CEOs, specialist CEOs, CEO general managerial skills.

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Chatjuthamard, Pattanaporn and Ongsakul, Viput and Jiraporn, Pornsit and Uyar, Ali, Corporate governance and generalist CEOs: Evidence from board size (July 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3896647 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3896647
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
B K Agyei-Mensah
The impact of board characteristics on corporate investment decisions: an empirical study
Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society Posted: 2021
Crossref
J A Alexander , M L Fennell , M T Halpern
Leadership instability in hospitals: The influence of board-CEO relations and organizational growth and decline
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 38 , p. 74 - 99 Posted: 1993
Crossref
A L Alhassan , K Zyambo , M A A Boakye
Welcome on board': resource dependency and agency theoretic evidence from the South African life insurance market
Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society Posted: 2021
Crossref
F Ali , M Wang , K Jebran , S T Ali
Board diversity and firm efficiency: Evidence from China
Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,100
RANK
538,134
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies