Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Drivers of Corporate Voluntary Disclosure: A Systematic Review

Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, (ahead-of-print). https://doi.org/10.1108/JFRA-04-2021-0110

44 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2021

Izdihar Abdullah Zamil

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia - International Business School

Suresh Ramakrishnan

Hanyang University

Noriza Binti Mohd Jamal

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Majeed Abdulhussein Hatif

University of Al-Qadisiyah

Saleh F. A. Khatib

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Date Written: July 15, 2021

Abstract

Purpose: The purpose of this research is to provide a systematic and comprehensive review to the existing literature on the determinants of firms reporting practices.

Methodology: Following a systematic method, the sample literature of 135 studies was collected from Scopus database. These studies were evaluated in terms of the theoretical lenses applied in the literature, yearly trend, regional distribution, research settings, and prior studies finding to provide some recommendations for further research.

Findings: The investigation revealed that the literature was more interested in the agency theory in investigating the drivers of voluntary reporting such as company size, age, leverage, liquidity, profitability, corporate governance, and ownership structure. Although firm-specific determinants were the most examined in the previous studies, however, the result is still inconclusive. Also, a limited work was found on the country-related factors, while internal audit impact has yet to be explored.

Contribution: Being the first of its kind, this research provides a comprehensive review of the current research landscape on the drivers of environmental or social disclosure and highlights several interesting opportunities for future research.

Keywords: Determinants, Voluntary Disclosure, Corporate Governance, Corporate Social Responsibility, Economic Regulation, Literature Review

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M14

Suggested Citation:

Zamil, Izdihar Abdullah and Ramakrishnan, Suresh and Jamal, Noriza Binti Mohd and Hatif, Majeed Abdulhussein and Khatib, Saleh F. A., Drivers of Corporate Voluntary Disclosure: A Systematic Review (July 15, 2021). Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, (ahead-of-print). https://doi.org/10.1108/JFRA-04-2021-0110, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3896316
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
167 References
Alshbili , ; A Elamer , B , D , E ]
Posted: 2020
; A Albers & Günther , B , D , E ]
Posted: 2010
Rossi Tarquinio
Posted: 2017
Oliveira
Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
776
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,012
RANK
74,177
7 Citations
167 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies