Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Small Business Dynamics and Employment with Private-Sector Real-Time Data

35 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2021 Last revised: 25 Aug 2025

Andre Kurmann

Drexel University

Etienne Lalé

York University - Faculty of Liberal Arts & Professional Studies; CIRANO; IZA

Lien Ta

Drexel University - Bennett S. LeBow College of Business

Date Written: June 01, 2025

Abstract

This paper proposes a novel methodology to distinguish true business openings and closings from sample churn in private-sector data and to evaluate the representativeness of the resulting estimates by leveraging supplementary high-frequency information on individual business activity. The methodology produces both real-time estimates using only concurrent information and retrospective estimates that incorporate additional information as it becomes available, reflecting a fundamental trade-off between timeliness and accuracy. The methodology is applied to a real-time sample of small businesses widely used during the COVID-19 pandemic to demonstrate its usefulness under extreme circumstances. The application highlights the importance of properly accounting for business openings and closing and at the same time yields two important insights about small business dynamics during the pandemic: (i) small business employment in in-person service sectors experienced larger swings in the beginning of the pandemic than employment of larger businesses, primarily due to a spike in temporary closings; (ii) delayed access to loans from the Paycheck Protection Program significantly increased small business closings but had minimal impact on employment of continuing businesses, suggesting the program's effectiveness operated primarily through preventing closures rather than preserving jobs at operating businesses.

Keywords: Small business activity; Sample turnover versus business openings/closings; Matching records; Paycheck Protection Program;

JEL Classification: E01, E24, E32, E60

Suggested Citation:

Kurmann, Andre and Lalé, Etienne and Ta, Lien, Measuring Small Business Dynamics and Employment with Private-Sector Real-Time Data (June 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3896299 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3896299
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
K G Abraham , R S Jarmin , B C Moyer , M D Shapiro , K G Abraham , R S Jarmin , B C Moyer , M D Shapiro
Introduction: Big Data for Twenty-First Century Economic Statistics: The Future Is Now
Big Data for Twenty-First Century Economic Statistics Posted: 2022
D Acemoglu , U Akcigit , N Bloom , W R Kerr
Innovation, reallocation and growth
American Economic Review , volume 108 , p. 3450 - 3491 Posted: 2018
U Akcigit , R S Chhina , S M Cilasun , J Miranda , E Ocakverdi , N Serrano-Velarde
ntuit QuickBooks Small Business Index: A New Employment Series for the US, Canada, and the UK. NBER Working Paper 31350 Posted: 2023-06
A Aladangady , S Aron-Dine , W Dunn , L Feiveson , P Lengermann , C Sahm , K G Abraham , R S Jarmin , B C Moyer , M D Shapiro
From Transactions Data to Economic Statistics: Constructing Real-time, High-frequency, Geographic Measures of Consumer Spending
Big Data for Twenty-First Century Economic Statistics , volume 1 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
692
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,565
RANK
85,900
34 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Prices, Business Fluctuations, & Cycles eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies