Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bankruptcy & the Benefit Corporation

96 Am. Bankr. L.J. 99 (2022)

University of Florida Levin College of Law Research Paper No. 23-1

53 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2021 Last revised: 5 Sep 2023

Christopher D. Hampson

University of Florida Levin College of Law

Date Written: July 30, 2021

Abstract

As pressure grows for money-making businesses to prioritize social goals, the benefit corporation—a recent innovation in corporate governance—promises to require the directors of socially minded businesses to balance public benefit with shareholder interests. But will that promise survive the crucible of financial distress? While most discussions of the benefit corporation give only passing treatment to insolvency (or ignore it altogether), this Article provides the first complete analysis of how bankruptcy principles would apply to benefit corporations, informed by the practical context of out-of-court workouts and negotiations that take place in the shadow of the bankruptcy laws. After analyzing three normative models, including an innovative application of the chanelling function of law, this Article answers that the benefit corporation’s key innovations should persist in bankruptcy. But with the reticulated provisions of creditor-debtor law and the Bankruptcy Code, the Article warns that the application of that principle is complicated and provides a detailed map of some of the major considerations—and pitfalls.

Keywords: bankruptcy, benefit corporation, benefit corporations, social entrepreneurship

Suggested Citation:

Hampson, Christopher D., Bankruptcy & the Benefit Corporation (July 30, 2021). 96 Am. Bankr. L.J. 99 (2022), University of Florida Levin College of Law Research Paper No. 23-1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3896383 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3896383
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,452
RANK
225,902
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Florida Levin College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies