Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
For Whom (and For When) is the Firm Governed? The Effect of Changes in Corporate Fiduciary Duties on Tax Strategies and Earnings Management

European Financial Management, forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2021 Last revised: 5 Aug 2021

Douglas J. Cumming

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Bryce Tingle, KC

University of Calgary - Faculty of Law

Feng Zhan

Western University

Date Written: July 31, 2021

Abstract

The proper object of the fiduciary duties of corporate directors and officers is frequently described as the central question in all corporate law. We use the adoption of constituency statutes, which shift the loci of corporate managers’ duties from shareholders to a wide range of stakeholders, as a quasi-natural experiment to determine the actual impact of fiduciary duties. We find that while the adoption of constituency statutes has no significant effect on measures of earnings management, it has a robust effect on firms’ effective tax rate, which increases in a range between 0.570% and 1.903%. These results are robust in terms of various measures of the firm’s effective tax rate. We provide explanations for why fiduciary duties apparently do not influence manager behaviors in relation to shareholders, but do affect their behaviors in relation to the taxing authority. We argue that a change to fiduciary duties doesn’t appear to alter the motivation of managers to maximize shareholder welfare outcomes, but rather it allows them to eschew short-term strategies that often impair long-term outcomes.

Keywords: tax aggressiveness, fiduciary duties, earnings management

JEL Classification: H26, G34

Suggested Citation:

Cumming, Douglas J. and Tingle, Bryce and Zhan, Feng, For Whom (and For When) is the Firm Governed? The Effect of Changes in Corporate Fiduciary Duties on Tax Strategies and Earnings Management (July 31, 2021). European Financial Management, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3897031 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3897031
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
E S Adams , J H Matheson
A Statutory Model for Corporate Constituency Concerns
Emory L J , volume 49 , issue 4 Posted: 2000
J K Aier , L Chen , M Pevzner
Debtholders' Demand for Conservatism: Evidence from Changes in Directors' Fiduciary Duties
J Acctng Research , volume 52 , p. 5 - 993 Posted: 2014
Crossref
J C Alexander , M F Spivey , M W Marr
Nonshareholder Constituency Statutes and Shareholder Wealth: A Note
21 J Banking & Finance , volume 417 Posted: 1997
Crossref
W T Allen , J B Jacobs , L E Strine
The Great Takeover Debate: A Meditation on Bridging the Conceptual Divide U Chicago L. Rev Posted: 1067
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,134
RANK
441,693
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies