Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Call Slide Deck

88 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2021 Last revised: 6 Jun 2025

Da Xu

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Date Written: May 30, 2025

Abstract

In recent years, earnings call slide decks (hereafter, earnings decks) have become increasingly common in the earnings announcements of public firms. In this paper, I examine the characteristics of earnings decks and the determinants of firms’ use of them. More importantly, I study their capital market roles. While I fail to find evidence that earnings decks on average offer information incremental to traditional disclosures, such as press releases and conference calls, they significantly reduce users’ information processing time. My analyses reveal three mechanisms that contribute to this acceleration: inclusion of visuals (e.g., charts and tables), summarization of key information, and release prior to earnings calls. Overall, this study documents a novel aspect of earnings announcements and highlights the role of multimedia elements in reducing information processing costs of corporate disclosures.

Keywords: Earnings Call Slide Deck, Earnings Announcement, Information Processing Cost, Image Recognition, Structural Topic Modeling

JEL Classification: G14, G41, M41, G17

Suggested Citation:

Xu, Da, Earnings Call Slide Deck (May 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3897410 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3897410
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Kristian D Allee , Matthew D Deangelis
The Structure of Voluntary Disclosure Narratives: Evidence from Tone Dispersion
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 74 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Divya Anantharaman , Yuan Zhang
Cover Me: Managers' Responses to Changes in Analyst Coverage in the Post-Regulation FD Period
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 6 , p. 1851 - 85 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Joshua D Angrist , Jörn-Steffen Pischke
Mastering "Metrics": The Path from Cause to Effect Posted: 2014
Sudipta Basu
The Conservatism Principle and the Asymmetric Timeliness of Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
659
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,440
RANK
91,487
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies