Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors Under Fire: The Association between Audit Errors and the Career Setbacks of Individual Auditors

61 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2021

Kevin C. W. Chen

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology

Tai-Yuan CHEN

Department of Accounting, HKUST Business School, Hong Kong University of Science & Technology

Weifang Han

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Hongqi Yuan

Fudan University - School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 4, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines whether and how auditors are disciplined for audit errors. Taking advantage of the long history of auditor identity data from China, we find that signing auditors with client restatements are likely to lose the privilege of signing the audit reports of public clients. However, auditors can avoid this consequence by issuing a relevant modified audit opinion to warn the potential misstatement. Further, auditors are more likely to be disciplined when they are located in a less concentrated audit market. Finally, we find positive outcomes from the disciplinary action of audit firms against auditors. In comparison to non-disciplining firms, disciplining audit firms have a larger decrease in the rate of client restatements, a larger increase in market share, and their clients have a higher earnings response coefficient (ERC) after disciplinary action. In summary, our results suggest that individual auditors in China can face adverse career consequences when they produce poor quality audits.

Keywords: Audit errors; individual auditors; financial misstatement;

JEL Classification: M41; M42; L20

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Kevin C.W. and Chen, Tai-Yuan and Han, Weifang and Yuan, Hongqi, Auditors Under Fire: The Association between Audit Errors and the Career Setbacks of Individual Auditors (August 4, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3898922 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3898922
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
D ; C Aobdia , Lin; And R , Petacchi
Capital Market Consequences of Audit Partner Quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , p. 2143 - 76 Posted: 2015
Crossref
D P A M Balliet , Van Lange
Trust, Punishment, and Cooperation Across 18 Societies: A Meta-Analysis
Perspectives on Psychological Science , volume 8 , p. 363 - 79 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M ; And S Bertrand , Mullainathan
Enjoying the Quiet Life? Corporate Governance and Managerial Preferences
Journal of Political Economy , volume 111 , p. 1043 - 75 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A ; D Blankley , J Hurtt; And , Macgregor
Abnormal Audit Fees and Restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , p. 79 - 96 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
301
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,175
RANK
230,777
9 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies