Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Update Frequency and Funder Involvement in Reward Crowdfunding Markets

53 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2021 Last revised: 22 Dec 2022

Ties de Kok

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Date Written: December 2022

Abstract

I study the role of funder involvement and development updates by the entrepreneur in improving reward crowdfunding outcomes. Reward crowdfunding is a growing source of funding for entrepreneurs with limited access to traditional financing. The limited regulation in reward crowdfunding markets, however, leaves it up to the entrepreneur and the funders to solve their agency problems. Using data from one of the largest reward crowdfunding platforms, I find that entrepreneurs who provide less frequent voluntary updates experience more involvement by funders in the product development process. The entrepreneur responds to this heightened involvement by adjusting their announcement length but not their update frequency. Finally, I find that funders who are responsive in their product development involvement improve project outcomes. Taken together, my results support that funder involvement and voluntary updates can work together to resolve agency frictions in reward crowdfunding markets.

Keywords: crowdfunding; update frequency; funder involvement; product development

JEL Classification: M41; O16; O31; L15; G14

Suggested Citation:

de Kok, Ties, Update Frequency and Funder Involvement in Reward Crowdfunding Markets (December 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3898885 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3898885
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,035
RANK
382,931
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies