Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants and Consequences of Noncompliance with the 2013 COSO Framework

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2021

Kunsu Park

Wenzhou-Kean University

Juan Qin

SUNY Oneonta

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

Jian Zhou

University of Hawaii at Manoa

Date Written: August 2, 2021

Abstract

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires firms to use a “suitable framework” as a basis for evaluating the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. The COSO 1992 framework was the most commonly used suitable framework until it was superseded by the COSO 2013 framework. Because strict compliance with the updated framework was not enforced by regulatory authorities, a non-trivial amount of firms did not comply in a timely fashion. We investigate determinants and consequences of noncompliance with the COSO 2013 framework following the supersession of the COSO 1992 framework. We find that noncompliance is positively associated with proxies for resource constraints, financial distress, and a weak internal control environment, and negatively associated with auditor industry specialization, board size, and audit committee accounting expertise. Further tests suggest that following supersession of the 1992 framework investors view noncompliance firms’ quarterly earnings surprises less credibly and that noncompliance increases regulatory scrutiny. Finally, we find some evidence that accounting conservatism increases after the supersession of the 1992 framework for compliant firms relative to noncompliant firms, suggesting noncompliance can delay the potential benefits of implementing the updated framework.

Keywords: COSO2013 internal control framework; noncompliance; internal controls; investor perceptions; regulatory scrutiny; accounting conservatism

JEL Classification: M41; M42

Suggested Citation:

Park, Kunsu and Qin, Juan and Seidel, Timothy A. and Zhou, Jian, Determinants and Consequences of Noncompliance with the 2013 COSO Framework (August 2, 2021). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3898057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
L Abbott , J , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
Crossref
A S Ahmed , B Billings , R Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
999
RANK
330,062
1 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies