Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Financial Stability: Bank Disclosure and Loss Recognition in the Financial Crisis

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Vol. 141, No. 3, 2021

90 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2021

Jannis Bischof

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Christian Laux

Vienna University of Economics and Business; Vienna Graduate School of Finance (VGSF); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Christian Leuz

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Leibniz Institute SAFE; CESifo Research Network; Center for Financial Studies (CFS)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 1, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines banks’ disclosures and loss recognition in the 2007–2009 financial crisis and identifies several core issues for the link between accounting and financial stability. We show that, going into the financial crisis, banks’ disclosures about relevant risk exposures were relatively sparse. Such disclosures came later after major concerns about banks’ exposures had arisen in markets. The recognition of loan losses also was slow and delayed relative to prevailing market expectations. Among the possible explanations for this evidence, our analysis indicates that banks’ reporting incentives played a key role, which has important implications for bank supervision and the new expected loss model for loan accounting. We also provide evidence that shielding regulatory capital from accounting losses through prudential filters can dampen banks’ incentives for corrective actions. Overall, our analysis reveals several significant challenges if accounting and financial reporting are to contribute to financial stability.

Keywords: Banks, Financial crisis, Financial stability, Disclosure, Loan loss accounting, Expected credit losses, Incurred loss model, Prudential filter, Fair value accounting

JEL Classification: G21, G22, G28, G32, G38, K22, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bischof, Jannis and Laux, Christian and Leuz, Christian, Accounting for Financial Stability: Bank Disclosure and Loss Recognition in the Financial Crisis (June 1, 2021). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Vol. 141, No. 3, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3898640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
J Abad , J Suarez
Assessing the procyclicality of expected credit loss provisions. Discussion paper no. DP13135. Centre for Economic Policy Research Posted: 2018
P Abbassi , R Iyer , J L Peydró , F R Tous
Securities trading by banks and credit supply: micro-evidence from the crisis
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 3 , p. 569 - 594 Posted: 2016
Crossref
V V Acharya , I Gujral , N Kulkarni , H S Shin
Dividends and bank capital in the financial crisis of
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 2007
Crossref
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,529
RANK
32,553
2 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies