Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Peer Effects on Corporate Cash Holdings: Evidence From Vietnam

Forthcoming, Asian Review of Finance Research

39 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2021 Last revised: 31 Jan 2022

Nghia Huu Nguyen

National Central University - Department of Finance

Wei-Hsien Li

National Central University - Department of Finance

Date Written: January 27, 2022

Abstract

This research examines corporate cash holdings in Vietnam, an emerging market, and finds reverse peer effects on them - that is, a firm’s level of cash holdings negatively relates to those of its peers. We also note the reverse peer effects are stronger for firms facing less competition and with low intangibility. Because the Vietnam market has noticeably lower competition and investment in innovation than in developed economics like the U.S., our evidence supports the role of competition and innovation investment in driving cash holdings’ peer effects and complements the literature that mostly focuses on developed economies. Our findings also support heterogeneity across countries in peer mimicking behavior and contributes to the cash holdings literature for the Vietnam market.

Keywords: Cash Holdings, Peer Effects, Vietnam

JEL Classification: G30, G32, L10

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Nghia Huu and Li, Wei-Hsien, Peer Effects on Corporate Cash Holdings: Evidence From Vietnam (January 27, 2022). Forthcoming, Asian Review of Finance Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3898248 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3898248
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
B K Adhikari , A Agrawal
Peer influence on payout policies
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 48 , p. 615 - 637 Posted: 2018
T Barker , M & Ü Ngör
Vietnam: The Next Asian Tiger?
The North American Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 47 , p. 96 - 118 Posted: 2019
T W Bates , K M Kahle , R M Stulz
Why Do U.S. Firms Hold So Much More Cash than They Used To?
The Journal of Finance , volume 64 , issue 5 , p. 1985 - 2021 Posted: 2009
J.-P Benoit
Financially Constrained Entry in a Game with Incomplete Information
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 490 - 499 Posted: 1984
Load more
1 Citations
Nguyen Thi Hoa Hong , Truong Cam Tu , Nguyen Danh Uy , Nguyen Ha Anh , Le Nguyen Nhan , Ngo Phuong Linh
Spillover Effects of Corporate External Financing: The Role of Vietnamese Climate Policy and Carbon Performance
Business Strategy & Development , volume 8 , issue 2 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,638
RANK
394,837
1 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies