Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Micro to Macro: Aggregate Accruals, Mergers, and Returns. A Discussion of Heater, Nallareddy and Venkatachalam (2021)

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

32 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2021

AJ Chen

University of British Columbia (UBC)

Maria Ogneva

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Date Written: July 30, 2021

Abstract

Heater, Nallareddy, and Venkatachalam (2021), hereafter HNV, find that aggregate merger and acquisition (M&A) activity explains the ability of aggregate accruals to predict market-wide returns. In this discussion, we delineate HNV’s contribution to accounting literature and provide a review of the emerging stream of micro-to-macro accounting research. We also discuss HNV’s findings in relation to research beyond accounting, including the literature on aggregate return prediction and mergers and acquisitions. Our discussion draws parallels between HNV’s results and prior empirical evidence pertaining to aggregate investment and merger waves and identifies several puzzling inconsistencies. These inconsistencies highlight the lack of a clearly specified mechanism behind the return-predictive ability of aggregate M&A accruals. Finally, we point out the challenges posed by the small sample size and noisy measures of M&A accruals that may affect HNV’s inferences. We conclude by suggesting several directions for future research.

Keywords: Aggregate accruals, aggregate earnings, micro-to-macro, macro accounting, mergers, aggregate investment

JEL Classification: G00, G1, G3, E03, E2, E32, M41, O4

Suggested Citation:

Chen, AJ and Ogneva, Maria, From Micro to Macro: Aggregate Accruals, Mergers, and Returns. A Discussion of Heater, Nallareddy and Venkatachalam (2021) (July 30, 2021). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3899688 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3899688
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
A M Abdalla , J Carabias
From accounting to economics: the role of aggregate special items in gauging the state of the economy. Forthcoming at The Accounting Review Posted: 2021
A M Abdalla , J M Carabias , P N Patatoukas
The real-time macro content of corporate financial reports: A dynamic factor model approach
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 118 , p. 260 - 280 Posted: 2021
A Ang , G Bekaert
Stock return predictability: Is it there
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 651 - 707 Posted: 2007
C Anilowski , M Feng , D J Skinner
Does earnings guidance affect market returns? The nature and information content of aggregate earnings guidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
444
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,949
RANK
149,425
2 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies