Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Financial Reporting on Corporate Performance: A Study Run on Exxon Mobil

4th Asia Pacific International Congress on Contemporary Studies (International Modern Sciences Congress

9 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2021

Vedat Akman

Beykent University

Ahmed Aaal Shehab

Yalova University

Cevdet Kizil

Istanbul Medeniyet University

Date Written: December 13, 2020

Abstract

In this paper, the impact of financial reporting on the corporate performance of a business organization, which is the Exxon Mobil Corporation is emphasized. Thus, Exxon Mobil Corporation is selected as a sample to show the assessment process of investment decisions. The consequences of financial reporting quality (FRQ) on corporate performance are also specifically examined in the case of Exxon Mobile Corporation. There is satisfactory literature on which underlined the positive effect of financial reporting quality on financial performance of corporations. In conclusion, based on the findings of this study, management of Exxon Mobil Corporation can clearly benefit from the use of debt finance in performance of company’s growth. It is also critical for the management of Exxon Mobil Corporation to maintain their creditor’s turnover ratio at a zero point, because neither too high nor too low is good for the company. So, for Exxon Mobil Corporation, the creditor’s turnover ratio should be at a point where the creditors and purchases (cost of sales) are equal. Currently, Exxon Mobil Corporation can also take advantage of credit facility and any discount associated with prompt payment of goods to increase profitability index. It is vital that the management supervise corporation’s costs more efficiently in generating more income for the corporation. Finally, the management should employ corporation’s assets efficiently in generating higher income for the company. Exxon Mobil Corporation should expand its operations in order to make more sales and profits. Current ratio, quick ratio (acid-test ratio) and working capital ratio need improvement.

Keywords: Accounting, Finance, Financial Reporting, Corporate Performance, Exxon Mobil

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Akman, Vedat and Shehab, Ahmed Aal and Kizil, Cevdet, The Impact of Financial Reporting on Corporate Performance: A Study Run on Exxon Mobil (December 13, 2020). 4th Asia Pacific International Congress on Contemporary Studies (International Modern Sciences Congress, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3899122
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Corp Exxon Mobil
Annual Reports -Financial Information, Exxon Mobil Corp Posted: 2017
S Gryglewicz
A Theory of Financial Decisions with Liqudity and Solvency Concerns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 99 , issue 2 , p. 365 - 385 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Isaksson
Investment, Financing and Corporate Governance: The Role and Structure of Corporate Governance Arrangements in OECD Countries
Seminar on Corporate Governance in the Baltics , p. 21 - 22 Posted: 1999-10
İ Kaya , D H Akbulut
Sustainability Reporting and Firm Performance , p. 81 - 84 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
775
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,928
RANK
74,177
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies