Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Auditing’s Role in Preventing and Detecting Fraud: An Empirical Analysis

International Journal of Auditing (Forthcoming)

17 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2021 Last revised: 8 Feb 2024

Annika Bonrath

University of Duisburg-Essen - Mercator School of Management

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Date Written: August 18, 2023

Abstract

Internal auditing plays a pivotal role in preventing and detecting fraudulent activities. However, the orientation and role of internal auditing in dealing with fraud risk can vary significantly across different companies. This study examines the relationship between the internal audit function (IAF) and fraud, providing new insights into the current practices of internal auditing. Using a survey dataset comprising responses from 275 Chief Audit Executives across Germany, Switzerland and Austria, we investigate factors that correlate with an increased propensity for IAFs to engage in fraud prevention and detection. Our findings suggest that a robust corporate governance environment significantly influences the extent to which the IAF is involved in preventing and detecting fraud. Shedding light on the positioning of internal auditing between management and the audit committee with respect to fraud, our results show that increased IAF involvement with management positively affects the level of activities to prevent and detect fraud, while increased IAF involvement with the audit committee has the opposite effect. Furthermore, we find that the propensity of IAFs to engage in fraud prevention and detection increases when the IAF applies technology-based auditing techniques for risk identification. Our results have implications for building appropriate protection against the steadily increasing risk of fraud within organizations, while holistically addressing the ambiguity regarding the responsibility for preventing and detecting fraud.

Keywords: Fraud; Internal Auditing; Corporate Governance; Whistleblowing

Suggested Citation:

Bonrath, Annika and Eulerich, Marc, Internal Auditing’s Role in Preventing and Detecting Fraud: An Empirical Analysis (August 18, 2023). International Journal of Auditing (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3899753 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3899753
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Serving two masters: The association between audit committee internal audit oversight and internal audit activities
Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2010
Acfe
Report to the nations: 2020 global study on occupational fraud and abuse Posted: 2020
S S Ahlawat , D J Lowe
An examination of internal auditor objectivity
-house versus outsourcing. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , p. 147 - 158 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,875
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,551
RANK
20,658
3 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies