Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Independence: Evidence on Non-audit Fees, Firm Financial Health and Investors’ Perceptions of Earnings

47 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2021

Anthony C. Ng

The University of Melbourne, Faculty of Business and Economics, Department of Economics; Sunway University

Ferdinand A Gul

Deakin University

Zabihollah Rezaee

University of Memphis - School of Accountancy

Date Written: August 6, 2021

Abstract

Motivated by the mixed results of prior research regarding the role of non-audit fees (NAFs) on auditor independence, this study examines the effect of NAFs on earnings response coefficients (ERCs) of healthy and financially distressed firms. We find that NAFs positively affect ERCs for healthy and marginal firms with little incentives to manage earnings while NAFs negatively affect ERCs for financially distressed firms with more incentives to manage earnings. We confirm our findings by showing that distressed firms are more likely to use accrual-based earnings management (AEM) as a channel to affect ERCs. These results hold after we control for various other determinants of audit quality and possible endogeneity. Results provide policy, research, and practical implications by advancing our understanding of the relationship between NAFs and investors’ perceptions of auditor independence.

Keywords: Value Relevance of Earnings, Non-Audit Fees, Firm’s Financial Health, Auditor Independence

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ng, Anthony C. and Gul, Ferdinand A and Rezaee, Zabihollah, Auditor Independence: Evidence on Non-audit Fees, Firm Financial Health and Investors’ Perceptions of Earnings (August 6, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3900271 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3900271
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
788
RANK
467,197
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies