Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Acquirers’ Political Connections and Bargaining Outcomes in Corporate Takeover Negotiations: Evidence from Antitrust Reviews

Posted: 30 Aug 2021

Simon Fung

Deakin University

Lawrence (Hong) Huang

Deakin University

Date Written: August 9, 2021

Abstract

We examine how acquirers’ political connections affect the bargaining outcomes in deal negotiations that involve significant regulatory uncertainties. In the context of takeover antitrust reviews, we show that politically connected acquirers pay a lower takeover premium to and share a smaller portion of the takeover gains with the targets, indicating that the critical role played by political connections in mitigating regulatory uncertainties enables the connected acquirers to benefit more from the deal negotiation process. Corroborating the bargaining argument, we find that the results are more pronounced in situations where: (1) the antitrust concerns are more severe; (2) the targets have fewer outside options other than the connected acquirers; (3) the acquirers’ political connections are more valuable; and (4) the connected acquirers commit to more effective communication with the regulators through more transparent disclosures. Overall, we identify political connections as one key factor affecting not only the successful completion of the deal, but also the deal negotiations under the shadow of costly regulations. We also shed light on the role of political connections in securing more favorable bargaining outcomes for shareholders.

Keywords: Corporate takeover; Political connections; Takeover antitrust investigation; Division of takeover gains; Bargaining power

JEL Classification: D72, G34, G38, K21

Suggested Citation:

Fung, Simon and Huang, Lawrence (Hong), Acquirers’ Political Connections and Bargaining Outcomes in Corporate Takeover Negotiations: Evidence from Antitrust Reviews (August 9, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3901865
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
346
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies