Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Muslim Society Perspective on Islamic Banking Corporate Social Responsibility in Indonesia (Based On Qur’an and Hadits Economic Themes)

International Journal of Business and Management Review, Vol.9, No.3, pp.29-40, 2021

12 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2021

Ermawati Ermawati

Institut Agama Islam Negeri (IAIN) Palu

Siti Musyahidah

Institut Agama Islam Negeri (IAIN) Palu

Nurdin Nurdin

Institut Agama Islam Negeri (IAIN) Palu

Date Written: August 8, 2021

Abstract

This paper aims to shine a light on how Islamic banks implement their corporate social responsibility from the perspective of Islam. This study employed a qualitative case study qualitative. The data were gathered through direct observation and in-depth interviews with the bank staff and societies who received CSR initiatives. The data were analyzed based on the grounded theory approach involving three iterations; open, axial, and theoretical codings. Our study found that Islamic banks have implemented their CSR initiatives based on government regulation and Islamic law and teachings. CSR includes the realization of Islamic economy responsibility, the compliance of the banks to government regulation and Islamic law, and practicing Islamic philanthropy.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, Islamic banks, Muslim, society perception

Suggested Citation:

Ermawati, Ermawati and Musyahidah, Siti and Nurdin, Nurdin, Muslim Society Perspective on Islamic Banking Corporate Social Responsibility in Indonesia (Based On Qur’an and Hadits Economic Themes) (August 8, 2021). International Journal of Business and Management Review, Vol.9, No.3, pp.29-40, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3901287
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
www.eajournals.org @ECRTD-UK , volume 9 , p. 29 - 40 Posted: 2021
W A W Abdullah , M Percy , J Stewart
Determinants of voluntary corporate governance disclosure: Evidence from Islamic banks in the Southeast Asian and the Gulf Cooperation Council regions
Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 262 - 279 Posted: 2015
Adnan Khurshid , M Al-Aali , A Ali Soliman , A Mohamad Amin , S
Developing an Islamic corporate social responsibility model (ICSR)
Competitiveness Review , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 258 - 274 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
315
ABSTRACT VIEWS
899
RANK
219,707
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies