Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Globalizing Ratings: Effects of Global Credit Rating Agencies’ Local Presence on Rating Outcomes

48 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2021 Last revised: 4 Nov 2022

Liran Eliner

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Le Ma

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Michael Machokoto

University of the Witwatersrand; African Development Bank Group (AfDB)

Anywhere (Siko) Sikochi

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Date Written: August 9, 2021

Abstract

Major U.S. credit rating agencies are criticized for failing to understand developments in other economies and thereby impeding capital access by assigning lower ratings. Consistent with this, we find that Moody's and S\&P credit ratings are more favorable after the agencies establish a local presence in the rated issuer's country of domicile. The results appear to be driven by a decrease in negative adjustments applied to model-predicted ratings, indicating that rating analysts become more confident with their quantitative model outputs after a local presence. Positive adjustments also increase, suggesting that analysts become more willing to assign higher than model-predicted ratings. Subsequent evidence suggests that, after the local presence, rating increases are not merely catering to local economies but become more informative as evidenced by their negative association with future credit risk premium and probability of default. Our findings inform the debate on the regulation of credit rating agency markets around the world.

Suggested Citation:

Eliner, Liran and Ma, Le and Machokoto, Michael and Sikochi, Anywhere, Globalizing Ratings: Effects of Global Credit Rating Agencies’ Local Presence on Rating Outcomes (August 9, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3901970 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3901970
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
G Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Qualitative uncertainty and market mechanisms
The Quarterly Journal of Economics Posted: 1970
C S Armstrong , K Balakrishnan , D Cohen
Corporate governance and the information environment: Evidence from state antitakeover laws
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1 , p. 185 - 204 Posted: 2012
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 41 , issue 1-2 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
N Attig , H Driss , S El Ghoul
Rating standards around the world: A puzzle? Emerging Markets Review , volume 45 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,552
RANK
398,904
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies