Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Differential Impact of Private and Public Debt on Accounting Conservatism

Accounting & Taxation, v. 13 (1) p. 11-109-119

11 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2021

Fengyun Wu

Manhattan College

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

The private and public debt markets differ in monitoring functions and covenant features. This paper empirically examines whether these differences impact accounting conservatism. Using a sample drawn from Loan Pricing Corporation’s Dealscan, I find that firms report more conservatively in the years following the issuance of private debt than the years before. I also find that firms report more conservatively following initial public debt offerings (bond IPOs). However, there is no change in the degree of conservatism around seasoned bond offerings. I interpret the results as reflecting differences in monitoring functions of the private and public debt markets. The direct monitoring by private debt holders and the external monitoring including regulatory scrutiny in the context of bond IPOs are effective in enforcing accounting conservatism. The limited monitoring in the case of seasoned bonds fails to do so.

Keywords: Accounting Conservatism, Monitoring Function of Debt, Private Debt, Public Debt

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Fengyun, The Differential Impact of Private and Public Debt on Accounting Conservatism (2021). Accounting & Taxation, v. 13 (1) p. 11-109-119, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3902145
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J H Anthony , B Bettinghaus , D B Farber
The magnitude and efficacy of earnings management preceding the issuance of public debt Posted: 2009
J Armstrong
The syndicated loan market: developments in the North American context. Working paper: Bank of Canada Posted: 2003
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality at initial public offerings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , issue 2-3 , p. 324 - 349 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
259
RANK
702,914
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies