Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Software Expenses on Financial Statements and Capital Ratios in the Financial Sector Empirical: Evidence from Germany and Austria

Accounting & Taxation, v. 13 (1) p. 97-108

12 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2021

Susanne Leitner-Hanetseder

Upper Austria - University of Applied Sciences Upper Austria

Josef Arminger

Upper Austria - Faculty of Management, CRF Department

Christa Hangl

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

In a world of digital technologies, software solutions become increasingly important for financial institutions and the amount of expenses for intangible assets are increasing. However, expenses for digital financial technologies are capitalized only if the requirements of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are met. Even if the expenses for digital financial technologies are capitalized, for calculating Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) under the Capital Requirements Regulation (575/2013) (CRR), the capitalized intangible assets must be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital as a prudential filter. This deduction leads to a reduction of capital ratios and therefore to a disadvantage for financial institutions with investments in software solutions. In June 2019, the European Parliament amended regulations of CRR so that in the future capitalized software as intangible assets will not be deducted from the CET1 capital. This paper examines the impact of this amendment on the capital ratios of German and Austrian firms classified as other-systemically important institutions (O-SIIs). The paper shows the growing relevance of software capitalization in the financial sector. However, based on the 2018 data, the impact of the amendment on capital ratios is not material for German and Austrian financial institutions.

Keywords: Intangible Assets, Software, Digitalization, Capital Ratio, CRR, IFRS

JEL Classification: G21, G38, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Leitner-Hanetseder, Susanne and Arminger, Josef and Hangl, Christa, Impact of Software Expenses on Financial Statements and Capital Ratios in the Financial Sector Empirical: Evidence from Germany and Austria (2021). Accounting & Taxation, v. 13 (1) p. 97-108 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3902142
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
929
RANK
627,127
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies