Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Major Customers Help or Hurt Innovation? The Effects of Customer-Base Concentration on Innovation Volume and Radicalness

54 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2021 Last revised: 15 Mar 2023

Clara Xiaoling Chen

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Wei Jiang

Renmin University of China

Wentao Yao

Xiamen University - School of Management

Date Written: November 22, 2022

Abstract

We examine the effects of a firm’s customer-base concentration on two distinct outcomes of
innovation: volume and radicalness. Drawing on resource dependence and resource allocation
theory, we predict a positive association between customer-base concentration and innovation
volume and a negative association between customer-base concentration and innovation
radicalness. Using a sample of 18,419 firm-year observations between 1976 and 2010, we find
results consistent with our predictions. Furthermore, cross-sectional analyses show that the
negative association between customer-base concentration and innovation radicalness is more
pronounced when the firm has lower bargaining power, faces greater financial constraints, or has
higher investment irreversibility. These results are consistent with innovation resource allocation
driving the negative association between customer-base concentration and innovation radicalness.
Collectively, our results are consistent with major customers shaping firms’ innovation outcomes
and innovation resource allocation decisions.

Keywords: Customer-base concentration; innovation radicalness; financial constraints; investment irreversibility

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Clara Xiaoling and Jiang, Wei and Yao, Wentao, Do Major Customers Help or Hurt Innovation? The Effects of Customer-Base Concentration on Innovation Volume and Radicalness (November 22, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3902729 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3902729
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
A Abel , J Eberly
Optimal investment with costly reversibility
Review of Economic Studies , volume 63 , issue 4 , p. 581 - 593 Posted: 1996
V Acharya , P Baghai , K Subramanian
Labor laws and innovation
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 997 - 1037 Posted: 2013
K Ahern , J Harford
The importance of industry links in merger waves
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 2 , p. 527 - 576 Posted: 2014
A Albuquerque , G Papadakis , P Wysocki
The impact of risk on CEO equity incentives: Evidence from customer concentration Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
282
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,372
RANK
247,189
3 Citations
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies