Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do key audit matters matter? Correspondence between auditor and management disclosures and the role of audit committees

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming

69 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2021 Last revised: 14 Aug 2023

Mahmoud Hosseinniakani

Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU) - NTNU Business School

Conny Overland

University of Gothenburg, Department of Business Administration

Niuosha Samani

University of Gothenburg, Department of Business Administration

Date Written: June 4, 2022

Abstract

This study examines whether there is a correspondence between auditor disclosures of key audit matters (KAM) and the management disclosures of significant accounting policies and estimates, following the introduction of the International Standard on Auditing (ISA) 701. We also investigate the moderating effect of audit committees on the relationship. We employ a sample of Swedish listed firms (2016–2018), using measures that capture the extent and the quality of management disclosures and how they relate to auditor KAM disclosures, including the number of accounting items disclosed, total number of words, and the number of unique KAM-related words (via a “bag-of-word” technique). We find a positive correspondence between auditor and management disclosures, greater in firms with audit committees. Additional analyses provide some evidence that management disclosure quality increases following the introduction of ISA 701, but it is mostly found in firms with a separate audit committee on the board. The results are robust to alternative measures for disclosures and using a matched sample design. Our findings suggest that policy makers should consider the interplay between audit standards and audit committees.

Keywords: Management disclosure; key audit matters; ISA 701; accounting policy and estimate; IAS 1; audit committee

JEL Classification: M42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hosseinniakani, Mahmoud and Overland, Conny and Samani, Niuosha, Do key audit matters matter? Correspondence between auditor and management disclosures and the role of audit committees (June 4, 2022). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3903173 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3903173
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
494
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,793
RANK
131,571
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies