Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Diversity and Corporate Scandals: Evidence from the UK

International Journal of Accounting and Information Management

52 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2021

Stephen Armstrong

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Craig Mclaughlin

University of Strathclyde, Department of Accounting and Finance, Students

Maha Moustafa

Open University, UK

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Date Written: August 12, 2021

Abstract

Purpose –This paper empirically analyses specific characteristics of an audit committee that could be associated with the likelihood of corporate fraud/scandal/sanctions.

Design/methodology/approach –The sample includes all firms that were investigated by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) through the audit enforcement procedure from 2014 to 2019, and two matched no-scandal firms. It uses logistic binary regression analysis to examine the hypotheses.

Research findings– Results based on the logit regression suggest that audit member tenure and audit committee meeting frequency both have positive associations to the likelihood of corporate scandal. Complementing this result, we find negative but insignificant relationships among audit committee female chair, audit committee female members percentage, audit committee qualified accountants members, audit committee attendance, number of shares held by audit committee members, audit committee remuneration, board tenure and the likelihood of corporate scandal across the sample.

Practical implications – The results should help regulatory policy-makers make decisions which could be crucial to future corporate governance. Additionally, these results should be useful to investors who use corporate governance as criteria for investment decisions.

Originality/value – We extend, as well as contribute to the growing literature on audit committee and therefore wider corporate governance literature and provide originality in that it is the first, to our knowledge, to consider two characteristics (i.e., remuneration and gender) in a UK context of corporate scandal. Also, the results imply that the structure and diversity of audit committee affect corporate fraud/scandal/sanctions.


Keywords: Audit committee diversity; audit committee structure; corporate scandals; corporate governance; UK

Suggested Citation:

Armstrong, Stephen and Mclaughlin, Craig and Moustafa, Maha and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed, Audit Committee Diversity and Corporate Scandals: Evidence from the UK (August 12, 2021). International Journal of Accounting and Information Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3903732
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
474
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,470
RANK
138,343
3 Citations
115 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies