Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Climate Change Risk Influence Non-GAAP Reporting?

Posted: 16 Aug 2021 Last revised: 15 Mar 2024

Zhangfan Cao

University of Nottingham, Ningbo - University of Nottingham Ningbo China

Steven Xianglong Chen

University of Liverpool - Management School (ULMS)

Ting Dong

Stockholm School of Economics

Edward Lee

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Date Written: August 8, 2021

Abstract

We examine whether climate change risk (CCR) influences firms’ non-GAAP disclosure frequency and quality. Unlike the highly regulated within-GAAP disclosure, greater managerial discretion through non-GAAP disclosure may enable financial reporting to be more responsive to the impact of CCR, which is less predictable and manageable than other macro-level risk sources. Using data of U.S. listed firms from 2003–2017, we find that CCR significantly increases the frequency, but lowers the quality, of non-GAAP disclosures. The increase in frequency (i) occurs mainly in firms with less within-GAAP reporting flexibility and more vulnerable to CCR, and (ii) is driven by both the physical damage risk and regulatory change risk channels. The decrease in quality is observable through the reduction in the informativeness of non-GAAP earnings and aggressive overstating of firms’ operating performance. Our evidence implies that the within-GAAP disclosure channel many not be sufficient for managers to address the impact of climate change and that they need to resort to non-GAAP reporting for such a challenge.

Keywords: Climate change risk, Non-GAAP reporting, Voluntary disclosure, Information asymmetry

JEL Classification: M41, Q54, D80

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Zhangfan and Chen, Steven Xianglong and Dong, Ting and Lee, Edward, Does Climate Change Risk Influence Non-GAAP Reporting? (August 8, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3905283
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
848
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies