Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To What Extent Did Independent Directors Help Firms’ Recovery during the COVID-19 Pandemic? Evidence from China

Applied Economics, 2021, Vol. 53, NO. 38, 4464–4480

36 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2021 Last revised: 31 Dec 2021

Xin Chen

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST)

He Xiao

BNU-HKBU United International College

Yifei Zhang

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: April 6, 2021

Abstract

To what extent did independent directors help firms’ recovery during the COVID-19 pandemic? In this paper, we answer this question by investigating whether independent directors contribute to Chinese listed firms’ operation income growth during the first and second quarters of the year 2020. By employing a triple difference-in-differences (DDD) estimation strategy, we show that firms located in more pandemic-affected regions experienced a more pronounced operating recovery if they receive more independent directors’ opinions and have fewer female and busy directors. The possible reason is that those female and busy directors were likely to be distracted during the pandemic outbreak. We also provide evidence that firms paying higher remunerations to independent directors tend to recover quicker. Moreover, independent directors’ age and education level positively contribute to firms’ recovery. Our work is among the first to study independent directors’ role in shaping firms’ operation performance under the COVID-19.

Keywords: COVID-19, independent directors, director distraction, firms’ recovery

JEL Classification: G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Xin and Xiao, He and Zhang, Yifei, To What Extent Did Independent Directors Help Firms’ Recovery during the COVID-19 Pandemic? Evidence from China (April 6, 2021). Applied Economics, 2021, Vol. 53, NO. 38, 4464–4480, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3905416 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3905416
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
665
RANK
667,795
3 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies