Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effective Legal Bonding Reduces Adverse Selection: Evidence from a Positive Shock to Public Monitoring and Enforcement

60 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2021

Disen Huang Albrecht

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: August 15, 2021

Abstract

Prior research posits that firms from less developed countries reduce adverse selection concerns by bonding to exchanges in more developed countries. The bonding hypothesis conceptually identifies legal and reputational channels. There is debate surrounding the effectiveness of the two channels, which are often conflated. This paper empirically isolates the legal channel by examining a positive shock to public enforcement and legal bonding—the 2013 Sino-U.S. agreement on enforcement cooperation—which resolved a credibility crisis for U.S.-listed Chinese firms. I hypothesize and provide two sets of evidence that the agreement yields effective legal bonding and reduces adverse selection. Firstly, high- and low-value U.S.-listed Chinese firms’ valuations become significantly more dispersed post-cooperation. Secondly, liquidity rises post-cooperation. Additional analyses show that although U.S.-listed Chinese firms made efforts to differentiate individual reputations, adverse selection lessens only after cross-border enforcement becomes more credible. I also find that the agreement has higher impact on firms with more positive pre-event reputation changes. The combined results suggest complementarity between legal and reputational bonding.

Keywords: bonding hypothesis; reputational bonding; legal bonding; cross-border monitoring and enforcement

JEL Classification: K22,F53,F65,G15

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Disen, Effective Legal Bonding Reduces Adverse Selection: Evidence from a Positive Shock to Public Monitoring and Enforcement (August 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3905575 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3905575
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
F Adjei , K B Cyree , M M Walker
The determinants and survival of reverse merges vs
IPOs. Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 32 , p. 176 - 194 Posted: 2008
S Adler , J Yang , Y Fu-Tomlinson , A Wang
Congress and NASDAQ propose new rules that may result in delisting of Chinese companies
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
J S Ang , Z Jiang , C Wu
Good Apples, Bad apples: sorting among Chinese companies traded in the U
S. Journal of Business Ethics , volume 134 , p. 611 - 629 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
511
RANK
791,953
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies