Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Partners’ Cultural Backgrounds to Clients’ Earnings Comparability

Posted: 16 Aug 2021 Last revised: 30 Aug 2021

Jaehan Ahn

University of Massachusetts Boston - Department of Accounting and Finance

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Zi-Tian Wang

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics

Jaeyoon Yu

Central Michigan University - College of Business Administration

Date Written: August 14, 2021

Abstract

Using a sample of U.S. audit partners spanning 2016 to 2019, we examine the role that auditor cultural background plays in shaping their audit styles. Given that culture significantly influences people’s cognitive attributes, we expect partners sharing the same cultural background to exhibit similar styles on their engagements. However, various external and internal governance structures constrain the effects of heterogeneous auditor characteristics, potentially muting the impact of culture on partners’ styles. Consistent with culture playing an integral role in shaping partners’ styles, we find that companies audited by partners with the same cultural background exhibit higher earnings comparability than companies whose partners come from different cultural origins. This result is robust to both client-pair and audit-firm-pair fixed effects estimations as well as a difference-in-differences test. Additional analysis implies that clients’ earnings comparability is more sensitive to auditors’ cultural backgrounds than the presence of common audit firms and audit offices.

Keywords: informal institution, auditor cultural background, audit style, earnings comparability

Suggested Citation:

Ahn, Jaehan and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Wang, Zi-Tian and Yu, Jaeyoon, The Importance of Partners’ Cultural Backgrounds to Clients’ Earnings Comparability (August 14, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3905200
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
760
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies