Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Good Cop or Bad Cop: What Drives the Self-Image of Internal Audit Functions?

45 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2021

Christopher Calvin

University of Dayton

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Vanessa Lopez-Kasper

University of Duisburg-Essen - Mercator School of Management

Date Written: August 17, 2021

Abstract

The internal audit activity’s stereotype as a “corporate watchdog” has dominated practice for decades despite efforts to shed this image in favor of a trusted advisor role in which it partners with management to protect and add value to the organization. Using a sample of 256 Chief Audit Executives, we find that a mix of professional and interpersonal characteristics representative of the components of trustworthiness (ability, benevolence, and integrity) are associated with the perception of the internal audit activity as a trusted advisor to the organization. Additionally, we find evidence that internal audit activities perceived as trusted advisors provide observable benefits to the organization in the form of audit effectiveness, efficiency, and usability. Our findings contribute to the growing academic knowledge of internal auditing and equip practitioners with an operationalizable set of incentives and goals for shifting the perception of their internal audit activity to that of a trusted advisor.

Keywords: Internal Auditing, Trusted Advisor, Watchdog, Self-perception

JEL Classification: M40, M42, G34, G32, M4, G3

Suggested Citation:

Calvin, Christopher and Eulerich, Marc and Lopez-Kasper, Vanessa, Good Cop or Bad Cop: What Drives the Self-Image of Internal Audit Functions? (August 17, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3906706 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3906706
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
See Iia Code
Ethics.aspx and American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Code of Professional Conduct at
For example, see the corporate governance guidelines for Alphabet Inc
IIA Standards Posted: 2017-07-20
References Ahmad , Z , D Taylor
Commitment to independence by internal auditors: The effects of role ambiguity and role conflict
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 24 , issue 9 , p. 899 - 925 Posted: 2009
Load more
1 Citations
Elnaz Vafaei , Hajinder Singh , Glennda Scully , David Gilchrist , Prerana Agrawal
Relational contracting theory and internal audit: Chief audit executives' perspectives on creating and strengthening trust by building credibility and clarity
International Journal of Auditing , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 24 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
407
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,378
RANK
165,214
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies