Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of the Audit Committee as a Corporate Governance Mechanism: The Case of the Banking Sector in Libya

Masli, A.M., 2018. The Role of the Audit Committee as a Corporate Governance Mechanism: The Case of the Banking Sector in Libya. PhD thesis., Nottingham Trent University.

243 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2021

Abdulhakim M. Masli

Misurata University

Date Written: August 18, 2018

Abstract

Financial scandals in developed countries such as the USA and the UK have highlighted the need for greater transparency and credibility in order to protect shareholders and stakeholders alike. It has been argued that the audit committee (AC) is a key mechanism for achieving this transparency and protecting shareholders’ interests. While there have been numerous attempts to investigate AC practice and effectiveness in developed countries, little is known about how these committees operate in developing countries such as Libya. Therefore, this research aims to: (1) explore the current role of ACs in the Libyan banking sector, (2) investigate the factors that affect their performance and (3) identify actions to enhance their effectiveness.

To achieve these aims, the study employed a combination of quantitative (questionnaire survey) and qualitative (semi-structured interviews) methods to understand how five groups of actors within Libya's banking sector (i.e. board and AC members, executive managers, and internal and external auditors) perceive the role and practice of ACs. The questionnaire survey was designed to collect initial data, while follow-up interviews sought to gain an in-depth understanding of all relevant aspects of the subject. In total, 218 survey responses were analysed, and 20 semi-structured interviews were conducted with senior directors and managers.

Although the findings broadly support agency theory’s assumption that ACs play a vital role, they also indicate that ACs in the Libyan banking sector are not performing to a satisfactory standard; they play too limited a role in monitoring financial statements and enhancing the external audit process, and their effectiveness is too dependent on the strength of their relationship with the internal audit department. Institutional theory provides one possible explanation for this: ACs may be primarily designed to create legitimacy outside the organisation rather than to protect the interests of shareholders. The findings also show that a number of factors variously enable (e.g. independence, financial expertise and size) or inhibit (e.g. weak board governance and Government intervention) AC effectiveness. Finally, a number of actions were identified that could be taken to enhance the effectiveness of these committees (e.g. the proposal to strengthen the accounting and auditing profession in Libya).

The study contributes to the ongoing debates about the AC’s role by being the first to investigate how this role is performed in Libyan banks, which are in the early stages of implementing corporate governance. It addresses an information gap by providing new evidence from a developing country regarding the AC’s role in corporate governance and discussing the impact of fourteen enabling and inhibiting factors on AC effectiveness. Finally, it is the first step towards identifying ways of enhancing the effectiveness of these committees and encouraging regulators and shareholders in Libya to pay greater attention to corporate governance mechanisms, including ACs.

Keywords: Audit Committee, Corporate Governance, Libyan Banking Sector, Libya

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Masli, Abdulhakim M., The Role of the Audit Committee as a Corporate Governance Mechanism: The Case of the Banking Sector in Libya (August 18, 2018). Masli, A.M., 2018. The Role of the Audit Committee as a Corporate Governance Mechanism: The Case of the Banking Sector in Libya. PhD thesis., Nottingham Trent University., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3906663 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3906663
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,381
RANK
354,044
3 Citations
499 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies