Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hedging Commercial Real Estate Price Risk: Evidence from the U.S.

50 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2021

Valtteri Jokinen

CBRE Finland

Juha-Pekka Junttila

University of Oulu - Department of Economics, Accounting and Finance; University of Jyväskylä - Jyväskylä International Macro & Finance Research Group (JyIMaF)

Juhani Raatikainen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 17, 2021

Abstract

Based on quarterly data from the US commercial real estate market we find that a short position on the Dow-Jones US Real Estate index (DJUSRE) can serve as a useful and effective hedge against the price risk of U.S. direct commercial real estate investments. According to our results, when utilizing the DCC-GARCH-models in the empirical analysis, compared to hedging with the stock market related VIX derivatives, especially hedging with DJUSRE would have decreased the price deterioration of U.S. direct real estate portfolios during the global financial crisis when compared to an unhedged position. In contrast to using DJUSRE, we find that the hedging effectiveness of VIX against direct real estate exposure is trivial. Hence, we are able to conclude that at least for the lower frequency, like quarterly market observations, VIX cannot be considered as a useful nor effective hedge against adverse price movements of direct commercial real estate investments, so the standard stock market hedge instruments do not provide a safety net for hedging against the price risks in the U.S. real estate markets at all.

Keywords: Real estate, Dynamic optimal hedge ratio, Hedging effectiveness, Dynamic conditional correlation, GJR-GARCH

JEL Classification: G01, G11, G13, G23, R30

Suggested Citation:

Jokinen, Valtteri and Junttila, Juha-Pekka and Raatikainen, Juhani, Hedging Commercial Real Estate Price Risk: Evidence from the U.S. (August 17, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3906637 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3906637
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
K Addae-Dapaah , J Glascock , D K H Ho
International Direct Real Estate Risk Premiums in a Multi-Factor Estimation Model
The Journal of Real Estate Finance and Economics , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 52 - 85 Posted: 2015
K Addae-Dapaah , K H Liow
Idiosyncratic risk, market risk and correlation dynamics in the US real estate investment trusts
Journal of Housing Economics , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 205 - 218 Posted: 2010
O Akinsomi , Y Coskun , R Gupta , C K M Lau
Impact of volatility and equity market uncertainty on herd behaviour: evidence from UK REITs
Journal of European Real Estate Research , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 186 Posted: 2018
C Amédée-Manesme , F Barthélémy
Ex-ante real estate Value at Risk calculation method
Annals of Operations Research , volume 262 , issue 2 , p. 257 - 285 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,053
RANK
411,549
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies