Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Reporting to Bank Regulators: Effective Regulation or Regulatory Overreach?

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 72, No. 2/3, 2021

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper

29 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2021

Amir Amel-Zadeh

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Mary E. Barth

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Date Written: August 16, 2021

Abstract

We discuss “Economic Consequences of Mandatory Auditor Reporting to Bank Regulators” by Balakrishnan, De George, Ertan, and Scobie (BDES, Journal of Accounting and Economics, forthcoming). BDES concludes that a key benefit of mandatory auditor reporting to bank regulators is reduced bank risk, and its costs include reduced profitability from less overall and less risky lending, and higher audit costs. BDES also provides evidence on the channels through which mandatory auditor reporting links to reduced bank risk. We scrutinize BDES’s analyses and inferences and suggest additional analyses to improve and deepen them. Most notably, we caution that effective bank regulation entails reducing risk for riskier banks; risk reduction for safer banks suggests regulatory overreach. Our evidence is more indicative of regulatory overreach. Thus, although BDES is an important step forward in understanding the role auditors can and do play in improving information available to key decision-makers other than through auditor reports on financial statements and internal controls, a comprehensive assessment of whether the benefits of mandatory auditor reporting to bank regulators exceed its costs is left for future research. Such an assessment is necessary before concluding whether mandatory auditor reporting leads to more effective bank regulation or regulatory overreach.

Keywords: Bank risk, bank regulation, auditor reporting, risk-weighted assets

JEL Classification: D8, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Amel-Zadeh, Amir and Barth, Mary E., Auditor Reporting to Bank Regulators: Effective Regulation or Regulatory Overreach? (August 16, 2021). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 72, No. 2/3, 2021, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3906040
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Regardless, the results of our analyses should be interpreted with caution. BDES Appendix A indicates that Size is the natural logarithm of total assets
Because the logarithmic function is nonlinear, using different units for the two variables potentially introduces measurement error in the estimation of BDES equation (1). Thus, we use the same units for both, which explains why the Table A1 Size statistics differ noticeably between the two samples (means = 21.19 and 14.12), but the Counterparty risk statistics do not (means = 13
Thus , volume 52 , issue 13 Posted: 1973
20 Untabulated statistics reveal that the standard deviation of Size in our sample is about 10% smaller than in BDES's sample, which is consistent with more measurement error in BDES's Size variable. Because BDES states that it expresses Size and Counterparty risk in USD
M Badia , M E Barth , M Duro , G Ormazabal
Firm risk and disclosures about dispersion of asset values: Evidence from oil and gas reserves
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
788
RANK
436,820
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies