Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Has European Corporatism Delivered? A Survey with Preliminary Evidence

65 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2021

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Date Written: August 18, 2021

Abstract

The modern stakeholder movement in the U.S. is arguably an attempt to import European corporatism into U.S. corporate practice and public policy. Hence, it is useful to ask (i) do European firms really invest in stakeholder welfare; and (ii) are such investments accomplished at the cost of lower shareholder rights or shareholder value? I survey ESG (environmental, social and governance) related legislative developments in Europe and the related academic literature to hypothesize that better E&S disclosure records in Europe do not compensate for the valuation discount imposed by weaker Gs. I go on to provide preliminary evidence on this hypothesis by focusing on largest 50 public firms in four key European countries (Netherlands, France, Germany and the United Kingdom) matched by industry and market capitalization to a sample of comparable U.S. public firms. These top 50 European firms account for between 72% and 99% of the equity market capitalizations of all domestically incorporated equities in their respective countries. The valuation discount between continental European firms and U.S. firms in Tobin’s Q is correlated with presence of large block holders in European firms. The poorer disclosure record of U.S. firms on the environmental (E) and social (“S”) dimensions of labor is not correlated with this valuation discount. When U.S. firms do disclose E and S information, their track record is no worse than their European counterparts. My data tentatively suggest that poorer G in continental Europe destroys more shareholder value than potentially better E and S disclosure can add.

Keywords: social responsibility, ESG, environmental and labor laws, United Kingdom, Germany, Netherlands, France, Violation Tracker, Subsidy Tracker, stakeholder, shareholder, Business Roundtable, CEOs.

JEL Classification: M14, G23, G34

Suggested Citation:

Rajgopal, Shivaram, Has European Corporatism Delivered? A Survey with Preliminary Evidence (August 18, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3907406 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3907406
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
M Becht , P Bolton , A Roell
Corporate governance and control. Handbook of the Economics of Finance Posted: 2003
M Becht , B Delong
Why has there been so little block holding in America? A History of Corporate Governance around the World , p. 613 - 660 Posted: 2005
N Berg , D Holtbruegge , C Egri , O Furrer , K Sinding , C Dögl
Stakeholder pressures, CSR practices, and business outcomes in Denmark, Germany and the Netherlands
European Journal of International Management Posted: 2018
G Benelli , C Loderer , T Lys
Labor participation in corporate policy-making decisions: West Germany's experience with co-determination
The Journal of Business , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 553 - 575 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,046
RANK
549,043
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies