Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Benefits of Proximity to Equity Analysts

82 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2021 Last revised: 15 Nov 2022

William Bazley

University of Kansas

Emily Kim

California State University, San Marcos - College of Business Administration

Felix Meschke

University of Kansas - Finance Area

Kevin Pisciotta

University of Kansas - School of Business

Date Written: November 13, 2022

Abstract

Prior research shows that analyst revisions are important information events and that some investors trade ahead of them. However, it remains unclear which investors trade ahead and what the financial consequences of such trades are. To address these questions, we combine local and foreign analyst revisions with comprehensive, high-frequency trading information from the Korea Exchange. We validate that both local and foreign analyst revisions meaningfully affect stock prices. We then show that only asset managers who are geographically and socially close to local analysts anticipate their revisions before the public release, and this anticipation is stronger for revisions by analysts that are ranked more highly by buy-side investors. Lastly, although local asset managers typically lose money when trading against foreign professionals who behave like skilled market makers, their ability to anticipate local analyst revisions tips the scales in their favor: local hedge funds earn greater excess profits on trades transacted ahead of local analyst revisions than all other professional investor groups combined. Overall, our evidence highlights that tips from local brokerages shift the competitive balance between domestic institutions and market makers and that access to tips depends on investor sophistication, geographic proximity, and cultural affinity.

Keywords: Geographic Proximity, Social Proximity, Sell-Side Analysts, Analyst Recommendations, Wealth Transfers

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G15, G23

Suggested Citation:

Bazley, William and Kim, Emily and Meschke, Felix and Pisciotta, Kevin, The Benefits of Proximity to Equity Analysts (November 13, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3907182 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3907182
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
T Adrian , E Etula , T Muir
Financial intermediaries and the cross-section of asset returns
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , p. 2557 - 2596 Posted: 2014
O Altınkılıç , V Balashov , R Hansen
Are analysts' forecasts informative to the general public?
Management Science , volume 59 , p. 2550 - 2565 Posted: 2013
O Altınkılıç , R Hansen
On the information role of stock recommendation revisions
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , p. 17 - 35 Posted: 2009
B C Ayers , O Z Li , P E Yeung
Investor trading and the post-earnings-announcement drift
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , p. 385 - 416 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,403
RANK
337,747
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies