Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Material Misstatements, Earnings Conservatism and Managerial Replacement Decisions

International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research, 2021

15 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2021 Last revised: 21 Jan 2022

Jo-Ting Wei

Providence University

Date Written: June 30, 2021

Abstract

Purpose: Based on signal theory and legitimacy theory, this paper examines whether firms with financial reporting misstatements (restatements) would prefer conservative financial reporting to send signals regarding their determinants of improving financial reporting credibility and legitimate organizational image in Taiwan. This paper further examines whether these firms reduce the demand for conservative financial reporting after replacing managers in the reveal of restatements. Design/methodology/approach: This paper adopts the ordinary least squares (OLS) regression models to estimate the hypotheses and uses different measures of earnings conservatism, such as the Basu’s (1997) asymmetric timeliness of earnings measure based on a one-year period and the Basu’s (1997) asymmetric timeliness of earnings measure based on a multi-year period. Finding: The results show that financial reporting behavior of restating firms would become more conservative in the reveal of restatements. However, when restating firms make replacement decisions for managers following restatements, they would demand less conservative financial reporting. This suggests that earnings conservatism and corporate governance may be substitutes in the context of restatements in Taiwan. Research limitations/implications: The findings have essential implications for Taiwanese security regulators and those who are debating the value of earnings conservatism for capital markets. When Taiwanese security regulators make regulations in relation to corporate governance and financial reporting, they must consider how to encourage firms to strengthen corporate governance and financial reporting credibility. Furthermore, to some extent, the findings of this paper support the efforts made by security regulators to enhance manager turnover disclosure transparency. Originality/value: By extending and advancing past research on restatements and earnings conservatism, this paper contributes to support that restating firms would enhance earnings conservatism following restatements in Taiwan. Moreover, this paper also contributes to support that earnings conservatism may be the substitute of governance mechanisms such as manager replacement in the context of restatements in Taiwan. Due to different institutional backgrounds and governance strength between Western countries and Asian countries, it’s important to examine what post-restatement actions would be taken by Taiwanese firms and how they select optimal governance structure in the reveal of restatements. The findings of this paper facilitate to enhance the understanding of the relationship between restatements and earnings conservatism and how corporate governance affects the above relationship following restatements in Taiwan.


Keywords: Misstatement Disclosure, Financial Reporting Credibility, Earnings Conservatism, Manager Replacement

JEL Classification: K22, M41, M43, M49

Suggested Citation:

Wei, Jo-Ting, Financial Reporting Material Misstatements, Earnings Conservatism and Managerial Replacement Decisions (June 30, 2021). International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3907141
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
421
RANK
872,402
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies