Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility, Environmental Pollution, and Stock Market Reaction

International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research, 2021

7 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2021 Last revised: 21 Jan 2022

Ya Fang Wang

Providence University (Taiwan)

Date Written: June 30, 2021

Abstract

Purpose: This paper analyzes whether and how the environmental protection concern of corporate social responsibility companies affects market participants’ perceptions by examining the nature and structure of corporate social responsibility companies.

Design/methodology/approach: I begin constructing my sample by hand-collecting data related to the material information of environmental pollution issues and the list of corporate social responsibility companies from the Market Observation Post System, the Gre Tai Securities Market, and the companies’ websites. The sample period began in 2007 because it was at that time that information related to corporate social responsibility activities became available. Then, I use the multivariate regression analysis to test research questions.

Finding: Empirical findings indicate that a statistically significant relation between material pollution concerns of corporate social responsibility companies and their subsequent negative stock performance. But, when such corporate social responsibility companies have a complete mechanism or corporate governance environment to support corporate social responsibility engagements, they are less likely to receive the subsequent negative stock performance. After considering the corporate social responsibility foundation, there is no evidence of corporate social responsibility foundation supporting to modulate the negative shock of pollution concerns. However, empirical results seem to imply that market participants give a higher tolerance for the companies with corporate social responsibility foundation, and hence give them a slight negative impact on market returns.

Research limitations/implications: Due to the costs of hand-collection, the sample comprised 7,707 firm-year observations associated with Taiwan listed companies over the period from 2007 to 2012.

Originality/value: From a theoretical perspective, this study provides a new perspective on the effect of corporate social responsibility concerns by examining environmental pollution cases. From a practical perspective, this study examines a rarely discussed issue on the effect of corporate social responsibility concerns and identifies a corporate social responsibility concern factor (environmental pollution) that influences market returns.


Keywords: corporate social responsibility, environmental pollution, material information, stock market reaction

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Ya Fang, Corporate Social Responsibility, Environmental Pollution, and Stock Market Reaction (June 30, 2021). International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3907150
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
M L Barnett , A A King
Good fences make good neighbors: A longitudinal analysis of an industry self-regulatory institution
Academy of Management Journal , volume 51 , issue 6 , p. 1150 - 1170 Posted: 2008
E Bartov , A Marra , F Momenté
Corporate social responsibility and the market reaction to negative events: Evide nce from inadvertent and fraudulent restatement announcements
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 2 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 2021
P L Cochran
The evolution of corporate social responsibility
Business Horizons , volume 50 , issue 6 , p. 449 - 454 Posted: 2007
A J Cohen , M Brauer , R Burnett , H R Anderson , J Frostad , K Estep , V Feigin
Estimates and 25-year trends of the global burden of disease attributable to ambient air pollution: an analysis of data from the Global Burden of Diseases Study
The Lancet , volume 389 , p. 1907 - 1918 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
310
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Industrial & Manufacturing Engineering eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies