Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance, CEO Compensation and Accounting Conservatism

International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research 2021

16 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2021 Last revised: 21 Jan 2022

Pakamas Srichoke

University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam Business School, Plantage Muidergracht 12, 1018 TV, Netherlands

Georgios Georgakopoulos
Alexandros Sikalidis

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Athina Sotiropoulou

University of Patras

Date Written: June 30, 2021

Abstract

Purpose: This study examines the moderating impact of corporate governance quality on the relation between CEO bonus compensation and accounting conservatism. Design/methodology/approach: We use market-based and accrual-based measures to estimate accounting conservatism. According to prior literature (Core, Holthausen and Larcker, 1999; Bhojraj and Sengupta, 2003; Rees and Rodionova, 2015), agency and managerial self-interest theory state that corporate governance strength can mitigate the negative relation between CEO bonus compensation and accounting conservatism. Finding: Our sample consists of S&P 500 companies while our empirical findings suggest that CEO bonus compensation and accounting conservatism are positively associated. Research limitations/implications: Thus, our results do not provide clear evidence about the direction of the effect of strong corporate governance. Both measures of accounting conservatism do not give significant relations, therefore the results about corporate governance strength are contradicting. The results hold the same after controlling for industry-specific effects. Originality/value: The purpose of this study is to shed light to the literature of accounting conservatism, corporate governance and CEO compensation. Furthermore, this research examines the current situation of corporate governance and motivates future improvement of corporate governance mechanisms.


Keywords: Corporate Governance, Executive Compensation, Accounting and Auditing

JEL Classification: G3, M12, M4

Suggested Citation:

Srichoke, Pakamas and Georgakopoulos, Georgios and Sikalidis, Alexandros and Sotiropoulou, Athina, Corporate Governance, CEO Compensation and Accounting Conservatism (June 30, 2021). International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3907161
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate Governance and Accounting Scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The Role of Accounting Conservatism in Mitigating Bondholder-Shareholder Conflicts over Dividend Policy and in Reducing Debt Costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
L Bachmann , R Loyeung , A Matolcsy , P , Z Spiropoulos , H
Powerful CEOs, cash bonus contracts and firm performance
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 47 , issue 1-2 , p. 100 - 131 Posted: 2019
R Ball , S P Kothari , Robin , A
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
973
RANK
337,747
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies