Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Real Effects of Supply Chain Transparency Regulation – Evidence from Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act

University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper Forthcoming

George J. Stigler Center for the Study of the Economy & the State Working Paper No. Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2021 Last revised: 22 Nov 2024

Bok Baik

Seoul National University

Omri Even-Tov

Haas School of Business - UC Berkeley

Russell Han

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

David Park

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen - School of Management and Economics; Seoul National University

Date Written: April 19, 2023

Abstract

Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act requires SEC-registered issuers to conduct supply chain due diligence and submit conflict minerals disclosures (CMDs) that indicate whether their products contain tantalum, tin, tungsten, or gold (3TG) sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or its neighboring countries (“covered countries”). Consistent with the reputational cost hypothesis, we find that heightened public attention to CMDs increases responsible sourcing. After Section 1502 takes effect, we find higher demand for 3TG products processed in certified smelters, decreased conflicts in covered countries’ mining regions relative to other regions, and reduced sensitivity of conflict risk to conflict minerals’ price spikes. Lastly, we find that conflicts decrease in Eastern DRC territories with prevalent 3T (tantalum, tin, and tungsten) mines but increase in territories with prevalent gold mines. Overall, our findings highlight the real effects of enhanced supply chain transparency regulation.

Keywords: Real effects, Dodd-Frank Act, Conflict minerals disclosures, Nonfinancial disclosure, Corporate social responsibility, Responsible sourcing, ESG, Due diligence, Supply chain, Resource curse

JEL Classification: C23, D22, D74, G14, G18, G38, K2, L2, M41, M48, O13, Q34

Suggested Citation:

Baik, Bok and Even-Tov, Omri and Han, Russell and Park, David, The Real Effects of Supply Chain Transparency Regulation – Evidence from Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act (April 19, 2023). University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper Forthcoming, George J. Stigler Center for the Study of the Economy & the State Working Paper No. Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3908233 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3908233
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , A Kermani , J Kwak , T Mitton
The Value of Connections in Turbulent Times: Evidence from the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 2 , p. 368 - 391 Posted: 2016
C Aghamolla , B An
Mandatory vs. Voluntary ESG Disclosure, Efficiency, and Real Effects
Nanyang Business School Research Paper , p. 22 - 41 Posted: 2023
International
Digging for Transparency: How U.S. Companies Are Only Scratching the Surface of Conflict Minerals Reporting
Amnesty International Posted: 2015
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Instrumental Variables in Action: Sometimes You Get What You Need
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion , p. 113 - 220 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,500
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,742
RANK
29,013
17 Citations
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies