Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sarbanes-Oxley and Earnings Quality

Crews, C. & G. Wilson (2021). Sarbanes-Oxley and earnings quality. Journal of Finance and Accountancy, (29).

12 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2021

Cori Crews

Valdosta State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

George Wilson

Valdosta State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

This study reviews and summarizes the relevant findings of nearly two decades of accounting and finance research papers that focus on the links between the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) and the quality of reported earnings. This study, unlike numerous other studies, does not seek to address the broad question of whether SOX provides a net benefit or a net cost to business or society. Instead, this paper narrowly focuses on the links between SOX and earnings management, both accrual-based earnings management and real earnings management, and earnings restatements. Analysis is divided into the decade subsequent to the signing of the Act and the following and most recent decade. This parsing helps to address whether the effects of SOX are persistent through time.

Keywords: Sarbanes-Oxley, SOX, Earnings Quality, Earnings Management

Suggested Citation:

Crews, Cori and Wilson, George, Sarbanes-Oxley and Earnings Quality (2021). Crews, C. & G. Wilson (2021). Sarbanes-Oxley and earnings quality. Journal of Finance and Accountancy, (29)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3908248
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
J Y Aono , L Guan
The impact of Sarbanes-Oxley Act on cosmetic earnings management
Research in Accounting Regulation , volume 20 , p. 205 - 215 Posted: 2008
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
E Bartov , D Cohen
The "numbers game" in the pre-and post-Sarbanes-Oxley eras
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 505 - 534 Posted: 2009
G A Brenner , R Brenner
Memory and markets, or why are you paying $2.99 for a widget?
Journal of Business , p. 147 - 158 Posted: 1982
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
887
RANK
349,044
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies