Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does A Government Mandate Crowd Out Voluntary Corporate Social Responsibility? Evidence from India

Indian School of Business WP Forthcoming

72 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2021 Last revised: 26 Apr 2022

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Prasanna L. Tantri

Indian School of Business

Date Written: August 22, 2021

Abstract

This study investigates the implementation of a Government of India mandate that requires firms to spend at least 2% of their profits on corporate social responsibility (CSR). The results show that qualifying firms that voluntarily engaged in CSR before the mandate reduce their CSR spending afterward. Despite increasing advertisement expenditure likely to offset the lost signaling value of voluntary CSR, stock prices and operating performance of former voluntary CSR spenders who qualify under the law decline. Our results suggest that regulatory intervention in CSR can both diminish its signaling value and lead to a reduction in voluntary CSR spending.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility; Sigaling

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Rajgopal, Shivaram and Tantri, Prasanna L., Does A Government Mandate Crowd Out Voluntary Corporate Social Responsibility? Evidence from India (August 22, 2021). Indian School of Business WP Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3909219 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3909219
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
R Bénabou , J Tirole
Individual and corporate social responsibility
Economica , volume 77 , issue 305 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2010
W G Blacconiere , W D Northcut
Environmental information and market reactions to environmental legislation
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1997
B J Bushee , C Leuz
Economic consequences of SEC disclosure regulation: evidence from the OTC bulletin board
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 233 - 264 Posted: 2005
Y.-C Chen , M Hung , Y Wang
The effect of mandatory CSR disclosure on firm profitability and social externalities: Evidence from China
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 65 , issue 1 , p. 169 - 190 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
957
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,652
RANK
55,665
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies