Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Size of the Firm and its Influence on Dividend Payout among Deposit Taking Saving and Credit Cooperative Societies (SACCOS) in Kenya

European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research 2021, Vol.9, No. 6, pp.26-34

9 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2021

Patrick Mwangi Wanjiru

Kirinyaga University

Agnes Ndida Mutiso

Kirinyaga University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 22, 2021

Abstract

In the recent past Saving and Credit Cooperatives Societies (SACCOs) have gained popularity in Kenya due to high interest rates charged by commercial banks and this has made borrowers to shift their focus to SACCOs due to their fixed interest rates on loans. In regard to dividend payment SACCOs tends to pay high dividends in comparison to commercial banks, however the level of dividend payout keeps on fluctuating and thus shareholders are not aware of what they expect in the next financial year. This paper was set to explore the influence of size on firm on dividend payout. The study focused on deposit taking SACCOs since they play a major role of capital formation in Kenya. The study used descriptive and correlational research design. The target population was the 176 the deposit taking SACCOs in Kenya, out of which a sample of 108 respondents were randomly selected from each SACCO. Data was gathered using questionnaire and document analysis and analyzed using SPSS (23). The study findings revealed that the size of the firm had a negative insignificant influence on dividend payout among SACCOs. The study recommended SACCOs should not focus so much on expanding their operations to different locations, instead should focus on products development. The study recommended further analysis on the influence of cash reserve ratio on dividend payout.

Keywords: size of the firm, dividend payout, deposit-taking, SACCOs

Suggested Citation:

Wanjiru, Patrick Mwangi and Mutiso, Agnes Ndida, Size of the Firm and its Influence on Dividend Payout among Deposit Taking Saving and Credit Cooperative Societies (SACCOS) in Kenya (August 22, 2021). European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research 2021, Vol.9, No. 6, pp.26-34 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3909281
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
291
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies