Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Product Life Cycle in the Benefits and Costs of IPO

ESCP Business School Research Paper

62 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2021 Last revised: 2 Jan 2023

Tina Oreski

ESCP Business School

Jiajie Xu

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: December 15, 2020

Abstract

The paper examines how firms' product life cycle (PLC) influences their trade-off between benefits and costs of going public. We construct the PLC measure by performing a textual analysis on S-1 registration statements for initial public offerings (IPOs). We show that firms with a more product-innovative PLC are more likely to complete the IPO even though they face higher underpricing and offer a lower fraction of equity at IPO. These firms conduct more seasoned equity offerings, payout fewer dividends, and conduct fewer acquisitions after IPO. The findings demonstrate that firms with diverging PLC differently weigh the importance of raising capital through IPO, information asymmetry with investors, and revealing information to competitors. To establish causality, we use an instrumental variable approach with the average PLC of similar public firms as the instrument for an IPO firm's PLC as well as a difference-in-differences approach exploiting the introduction of the American Inventors Protection Act. Our paper offers novel evidence on a previously under-explored economic force determining the trade-off of going public: firms' product life cycle.

Keywords: IPO, Product life cycle, Competition, Disclosure, Information asymmetry, Textual analysis

Suggested Citation:

Oreski, Tina and Xu, Jiajie, The Role of Product Life Cycle in the Benefits and Costs of IPO (December 15, 2020). ESCP Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3910034 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3910034
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
W J Abernathy , J M Utterback
Patterns of industrial innovation
Technology Review , volume 80 , issue 7 , p. 40 - 47 Posted: 1978
F Allen , G R Faulhaber
Signaling by underpricing in the IPO market
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 303 - 323 Posted: 1989
A M Arikan , R M Stulz
Corporate acquisitions, diversification, and the firm's life cycle
The Journal of Finance , volume 71 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 194 Posted: 2016
J Asker , J Farre-Mensa , A Ljungqvist
Corporate investment and stock market listing: A puzzle? The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , p. 342 - 390 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
348
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,129
RANK
196,969
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies