Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Connections and SEC Enforcement

54 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2021 Last revised: 23 May 2022

Ying Cao

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - School of Accountancy

Rui Guo

Xiamen University

Lirong Shentu

Xiamen University

Yong George Yang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Faculty of Business Administration

Date Written: August 25, 2021

Abstract

We find that firms led by executives who are socially connected to senior officers of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are less likely to be subject to enforcement actions against financial misstatements. This result is attributable to a lower likelihood that connected firms will be investigated by the SEC and that such an investigation will result in an enforcement action. When prosecuted by the SEC, connected firms are less likely to face court litigation or monetary penalties, and their executives are less likely to be named in the enforcement release. Tests of the underlying mechanisms suggest that connected firms have more private information about ongoing investigations, include less boilerplate in their communications with the SEC, and gain more credit from the SEC for their cooperation. However, the negative association between social connections and enforcement actions is reduced by external monitoring, suggesting the existence of agency problems in the enforcement process. Finally, social connections to the SEC do not affect the likelihood of firms’ subsequent accounting violations. Overall, our study documents the profound role of social networks in a key public enforcement agency of the U.S. capital market.

Keywords: SEC Enforcement, AAER, Social Connections, Misstatements

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Ying and Guo, Rui and Shentu, Lirong and Yang, Yong George, Social Connections and SEC Enforcement (August 25, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3910988 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3910988
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , A Kermani , J Kwak , T Mitton
The value of connections in turbulent times: evidence from the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 2 , p. 368 - 391 Posted: 2016
P S Adler , S W Kwon
Social capital: prospects for a new concept
Academy of Management Review , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 40 Posted: 2002
A Allen , K Ramanna
Towards an understanding of the role of standard setters in standard setting
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 66 - 90 Posted: 2013
W E Baker
Achieving success through social capital: Tapping the hidden resources in your personal and business networks
Jossey-Bass Posted: 2000
Load more
1 Citations
Mahfuz Chy , Inder K. Khurana , Hoyoun Kyung
Spillover Effects of the SEC's Regulatory Oversight on Private Debt Contracting: Evidence from Cross‐listed Foreign Firms
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 63 , issue 2 , p. 769 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
314
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,709
RANK
220,473
1 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies