Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bankruptcy Prediction of Privately Held SMEs Using Feature Selection Methods

94 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2021 Last revised: 20 Sep 2023

Florentina Paraschiv

Zeppelin University, Chair of Finance; Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Faculty of Economics and Management, NTNU Business School; University of St. Gallen, Institute for Operations Research and Computational Finance

Markus Schmid

University of St. Gallen - Swiss Institute of Banking and Finance; University of St. Gallen - School of Finance; Swiss Finance Institute; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Ranik Raaen Wahlstrøm

NTNU Business School, Norwegian University of Science and Technology

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 01, 2024

Abstract

We test alternative feature selection methods for bankruptcy prediction and illustrate their superiority versus popular models used in the literature. We apply these methods to a comprehensive dataset of more than 1.8 million financial statements covering the entire universe of privately held Norwegian SMEs in 2006-2020. We find that input variables chosen by an embedded least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) method yield the best in-sample fit, out-of-sample performance, and stability. This finding holds across different time periods, including the coronavirus crisis, and is robust to using either discrete hazard models with logistic regression or a deep artificial neural network in the estimation. We also study the implications of coronavirus governmental relief programs on bankruptcies and bankruptcy prediction and show that the size of compensation grants contributes to predicting bankruptcy during the coronavirus period. In a real-world simulation of a competitive credit market, we show that small differences in model performance can significantly impact bank profitability, with LASSO outperforming any other bankruptcy prediction model.

Keywords: Bankruptcy prediction, Feature selection methods, LASSO, Deep learning, Bank profitability

JEL Classification: C25, G17, G33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Paraschiv, Florentina and Schmid, Markus and Wahlstrøm, Ranik Raaen, Bankruptcy Prediction of Privately Held SMEs Using Feature Selection Methods (October 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3911490 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3911490
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
126 References
P Adämmer , R A Schüssler
Forecasting the equity premium: Mind the news! Review of Finance , volume 24 , p. 1313 - 1355 Posted: 2020
V Agarwal , R J Taffler
Twenty-five years of the Taffler z-score model: Does it really have predictive ability? Accounting and Business Research , volume 37 , p. 285 - 300 Posted: 2007
V Agarwal , R J Taffler
Comparing the performance of market-based and accountingbased bankruptcy prediction models
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 32 , p. 1541 - 1551 Posted: 2008
H Akaike
A new look at the statistical model identification
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control , volume 19 , p. 716 - 723 Posted: 1974
Load more
7 Citations
Edward I. Altman , Marco Balzano , Alessandro Giannozzi , Stjepan Srhoj
Revisiting SME default predictors: The Omega Score
Journal of Small Business Management , volume 61 , issue 6 , p. 2383 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Martina Mokrišová , Jarmila Horváthová
Domain Knowledge Features versus LASSO Features in Predicting Risk of Corporate Bankruptcy—DEA Approach
Risks , volume 11 , issue 11 , p. 199 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Akarsh Kainth , Ranik Raaen Wahlstrøm
Do IFRS Promote Transparency? Evidence from the Bankruptcy Prediction of Privately Held Swedish and Norwegian Companies
Journal of Risk and Financial Management , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 123 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Florian Horky , Carolina Rachel , Jarko Fidrmuc
Price determinants of non-fungible tokens in the digital art market
Finance Research Letters , volume 48 , p. 103007 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
236
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,756
RANK
144,509
7 Citations
126 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies