Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SPAC Attack: An Examination of SPAC Director Compensation and Its Legal Implications

16 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2021 Last revised: 2 Sep 2021

Hunter Fortney

Harvard University, Harvard Law School

Date Written: August 11, 2021

Abstract

Special Purpose Acquisition Company (“SPAC”) directors are compensated with economic ownership of founders shares, shares which have value if the SPAC combines with an operating business and which expire worthless if that does not occur. By analyzing the public filings of the 248 SPACs that IPOed in 2020, I create a dataset of SPAC director compensation, which is the first of its kind. I find that a director of the median SPAC receives approximately 30,000 founders shares (estimated value $300,000) and a director of the average SPAC receives approximately 40,000 founders shares (estimated value $400,000). I then demonstrate how the current director compensation subjects SPACs and their directors to greater litigation risk under Delaware law. Specifically, SPAC directors may not be considered independent under Delaware law because of the structure and quantum of compensation via founders shares. Furthermore, under Delaware law, if SPAC directors are not independent, legal claims surrounding the SPAC merger may be examined under the exacting entire fairness standard rather than the deferential business judgement rule because potential procedural safeguards of the SPAC, such as the shareholder vote, may not be sufficiently “cleansing.” Finally, I propose changes in SPAC director compensation to improve director independence.

Keywords: SPAC, Director Compensation, Director Independence

JEL Classification: G00, G30, G34, K2, K22

Suggested Citation:

Fortney, Hunter, SPAC Attack: An Examination of SPAC Director Compensation and Its Legal Implications (August 11, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3911337 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3911337
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Assumes (1) 20 million Founder Shares (25% of the 80 million sold in the IPO) x $5 per share = $100 million and (2) Sponsor owns all Founder Shares not owned by directors. Even if the Sponsor's $18 million of warrant purchases is worthless because of the
re Trados Inc. S'holder Litig , volume 17 Posted: 2013
Ibid
Ibid
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
799
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,540
RANK
71,140
2 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies