Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Indirect Effects of Regulatory Changes: Evidence From the Acceleration of the 10-K Filing Deadline

Forthcoming at Advances in Accounting (Full-text: https://authors.elsevier.com/a/1eWdf38hhaSE%7ED)

63 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2021 Last revised: 15 Feb 2022

Bei Dong

University of South Florida - School of Accountancy

Jonathan Nash

University of New Hampshire

Le Emily Xu

University of New Hampshire - Department of Accounting & Finance

Date Written: August 1, 2021

Abstract

This study responds to a recent call for research on the indirect effects of regulatory changes and examines the audit office effects of changes in client time pressure, using the first acceleration of the 10-K filing deadline as the primary research setting. The extant literature provides evidence that increased client time pressure adversely affects the timing and quality of individual engagements. We argue that because audit offices possess finite resources and production capacity, client-level pressure can have office-level effects. We document within-office differences related to changes in audit timeliness. In the same audit office, clients with no pressure (with pressure) experience an increase (a decrease) in audit report lag post-acceleration. This evidence suggests that auditors alter the timing of concurrent engagements in response to client pressure, and clients of the same office are affected differently by changes in time pressure. We also document across-office differences in audit/filing timeliness and audit quality. Clients of audit offices with more time pressure across the entire client portfolio have a greater increase in audit delay, are more likely to file late, and experience lower audit quality. Taken as a whole, our results are consistent with client pressure producing office effects as a result of the auditors’ response to increased resource constraints. These results should be informative to regulators and practitioners, because they suggest there are indirect costs associated with regulation and such effects are not limited to directly affected clients. Further, the results indicate that auditors do not always respond to changes in resource requirements in a manner that prevents undue strain.


Keywords: Regulatory change; indirect effects; office resource constraints; client pressure; timeliness; audit quality

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Bei and Nash, Jonathan and Xu, Le Emily, Indirect Effects of Regulatory Changes: Evidence From the Acceleration of the 10-K Filing Deadline (August 1, 2021). Forthcoming at Advances in Accounting (Full-text: https://authors.elsevier.com/a/1eWdf38hhaSE%7ED), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3911590 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3911590
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
A W Alford , J J Jones , M E Zmijewski
Extensions and violations of the statutory 10-K filing requirements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , issue 1/2 , p. 229 - 254 Posted: 1994
C P Agoglia , J F Brazel , R C Hatfield , S B Jackson
How do audit workpaper reviewers cope with the conflicting pressures of detecting misstatement and balancing client workloads?
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 43 Posted: 2010
Quality control standard 8, section 10 (QC 10) Posted: 2017-07
E Bartov , Y Konchitchki
SEC filings, regulatory deadlines, and capital market consequences
Accounting Horizons , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 109 - 131 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
657
RANK
772,295
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies