Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Quality and Best Practices of Whistleblowing: Evidence From Brazilian Companies

Latin American Business Review, Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2021 Last revised: 4 Jun 2023

Lucas Martins Dias Maragno

Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ) - Faculdade de Administracao e Ciencias Contabeis - FACC

Jose Alonso Borba

Federal University of Santa Catarina (UFSC)

Date Written: August 29, 2021

Abstract

This study documents the first evidence of the audit committee quality on the best practices of whistleblowing channels in Brazilian companies. We developed a checklist of good practices for internal reporting channels based on the recommendations of the Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance (IBGC) and the Comptroller General of the Union (CGU). The study sample comprised 397 companies listed on the Brazilian stock exchange (B3). We provide descriptive statistics of the total companies in the sample, approximately 67% of companies implemented whistleblowing channels. We find a positive association between audit committee quality and best practices of internal reporting channels. This finding indicates an effort of audit committees to implement a set of practices to encourage and protect the whistle-blower. We also find a positive association with firm size and audited by big four. Finally, we show that best practices of whistleblowing channels are negative associated with financial industry and the percentage of ownership attributable to the largest shareholder. These findings implies that financial firms like banks and firms with ownership concentration discourage whistle-blowers to come forward and blow the whistle. Our results have policy implications for further strengthening whistleblowing protection in an emerging country like Brazil.

Keywords: Whistleblowing channel, Audit committee quality, Internal reporting.

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Martins Dias Maragno, Lucas and Borba, Jose Alonso, Audit Committee Quality and Best Practices of Whistleblowing: Evidence From Brazilian Companies (August 29, 2021). Latin American Business Review, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3913542 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3913542
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Acfe
Report to The Nations: Global Study On Occupational Fraud And Abuse Posted: 2018
Corporate governance principles and recommendations Posted: 2019
R M Ayres , F F Sauerbronn , A C P D Da Fonseca , J C H Do Nascimento
CONTÁBIL , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 68 - 90 Posted: 2018
V G Baioco , J D Almeida
Efeitos do comitê de auditoria e do conselho fiscal na qualidade da informação contábil no Brasil
Revista Contabilidade & Finanças , volume 28 , issue 74 , p. 229 - 248 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
606
RANK
545,411
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies