Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Let us work together: The impact of customer strategic alliances on IPO underpricing and post-IPO performance

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

61 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2021

Xuan Peng

Huazhong Agricultural University - College of Economics & Management

Yibo Franco Jia

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Kam C. Chan

Western Kentucky University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Xiongyuan Wang

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Date Written: January 20, 2021

Abstract

The literature on strategic alliances generally suggests that such alliances create benefits for the firms involved. However, these studies primarily focus on seasoned firms. Leveraging the availability of three years of pre-IPO data for Chinese firms, we examine the impact of customer strategic alliances (CSA) on IPO underpricing from 2007-2015. Our core findings suggest that IPO firms with CSAs have less IPO underpricing than those without such a relationship. The decrease in underpricing is more salient for IPO firms that have non-related-party customers. Additional analysis suggests that the core findings are primarily driven by firms with good information environment pre-IPO, including high audit quality, high analyst following, and low earnings management. We interpret the results as indicating that a good pre-IPO information environment enhances the credibility of CSA relationships and signals high IPO quality. Furthermore, we document that a CSA relationship has a positive impact on an IPO firm’s post-IPO performance, especially when the firm has non-related-party customers. Overall, CSAs reduce IPO underpricing and enhance IPO returns post-IPO.

Keywords: Customer strategic alliance; IPO underpricing; performance post-IPO

JEL Classification: G14, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Peng, Xuan and Jia, Yibo Franco and Chan, Johnny and Wang, Xiongyuan, Let us work together: The impact of customer strategic alliances on IPO underpricing and post-IPO performance (January 20, 2021). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3913544
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
R Aggarwal , P Rivoli
Fads in the initial public offering market?
Financial management , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 45 - 57 Posted: 1990
H H An , K C Chan
Credit ratings and IPO pricing
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 14 , p. 584 - 595 Posted: 2008
M Baxamusa , A Jalal , A Jha
It pays to partner with a firm that writes annual reports well
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 92 , p. 13 - 34 Posted: 2018
R P Beatty
Auditor reputation and the pricing of initial public offering
Accounting Review , volume 64 , issue 4 , p. 693 - 709 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
775
RANK
538,134
10 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies