Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Internationalization on IPO Underpricing: a Result of Agency Costs Reduction, a Certification Effect, or a Diversification Benefit?

Finance Research Letters, Forthcoming

24 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2021 Last revised: 10 Jan 2023

Xuan Peng

Huazhong Agricultural University - College of Economics & Management

Yibo Franco Jia

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Kam C. Chan

Western Kentucky University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: April 1, 2021

Abstract

We examine the impact of internationalization on IPO underpricing in China. Our findings, which suggest that internationalization can reduce IPO underpricing, echoes similar findings in the literature. However, we document that the transmission channel is not consistent with a diversification benefit documented in the literature. Instead, we find that internationalization: 1) serves as a good signal for investors and certifies the IPO is a quality investment due to lower information asymmetry; and 2) enhances corporate governance so that agency problems are less severe, thus leading to lower IPO underpricing. Overall, the underlying mechanisms differ between mature and emerging markets.

Keywords: Internationalization; information asymmetry; agency costs

Suggested Citation:

Peng, Xuan and Jia, Yibo Franco and Chan, Johnny, The Impact of Internationalization on IPO Underpricing: a Result of Agency Costs Reduction, a Certification Effect, or a Diversification Benefit? (April 1, 2021). Finance Research Letters, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3913799 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3913799
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
N Attig , O Guedhami , D Mishra
Multiple large shareholders, control contests, and implied cost of equity
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 14 , issue 5 , p. 721 - 737 Posted: 2008
C H Chang , C H Chang , P K Hsu , S Y Yang
The catalytic effect of internationalization on innovation
European Financial Management , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 942 - 977 Posted: 2019
G Chen , M Firth , J B Kim
IPO underpricing in China's new stock markets
Journal of Multinational Financial Management , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 283 - 302 Posted: 2004
Y Chen , S S Wang , W Li , Q Sun , W H Tong
Institutional environment, firm ownership, and IPO first-day returns: Evidence from China , volume 32 , p. 150 - 168 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
804
RANK
580,030
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies