Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor-State Dispute Prevention: A Critical Reflection

Dispute Resolution Journal, Volume 75, Issue 4 (2021)

20 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2021

Lise Johnson

Columbia University - Columbia Center on Sustainable Investment

Lisa Sachs

Columbia University - Columbia Center on Sustainable Investment

Ella Merrill

Columbia University - Columbia Center on Sustainable Investment

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

Especially as treaty-based investor-state dispute settlement (ISDS) claims rise, governments have been increasingly adopting dispute prevention approaches or mechanisms to avoid such claims. This paper identifies two basic approaches used by governments to avoid disputes -- described as ISDS-minimizing and ISDS-elevating approaches -- and evaluates the possible costs and benefits of each. ISDS-minimizing approaches minimize the risk and impact of ISDS claims by reducing the scope of such claims in favor of domestic and other technical means of resolving disputes. ISDS-elevating approaches give certain actors within government greater authority to address investor concerns, thereby increasing the power of ISDS for claimants and the leverage of foreign investors over policymakers. The paper discusses the possible advantages and disadvantages of the two divergent approaches for different stakeholders, and also identifies how some currently used metrics can be misleading or incomplete. The paper concludes with suggestions for rethinking dispute-avoidance strategies by clearly defining a country’s objectives, as well as taking into account public policy considerations that may help to avoid unintended consequences arising from efforts to minimize the costs of ISDS disputes.

Keywords: Investor-state dispute settlement (ISDS), Dispute prevention mechanisms (DPMs), ISDS avoidance strategies, ISDS-minimizing approaches, ISDS-elevating approaches

JEL Classification: F2, F3, F38, F4, F42, F47, F5, F51, F53, F55, K00, K12, K2, K3, K32, K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Lise and Sachs, Lisa and Merrill, Ella, Investor-State Dispute Prevention: A Critical Reflection (2021). Dispute Resolution Journal, Volume 75, Issue 4 (2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3914334
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
; Dpms , Maria See , Borga
avoiding disgruntled investors; promoting beneficial and mutuallyaccepted outcomes from investment; fostering reform of domestic policies and institutions; and capacity-building. Some countries, such as Brazil, adopt DPMs while rejecting ISDS
including: attracting or retaining investment or attracting reinvestment Posted: 2020
The objectives of DPMs are critical to their design and assessment
Colum. J. Transnat'l L , volume 547 Posted: 2017
E G See , A Secretariat , Cn.9/Wg , Iii , Wp
United Nations Commission on International Trade Law, Possible Reform of Investor-State Dispute Settlement: Dispute prevention and mitigation-means of alternative dispute resolution
Lise Johnson et al., Costs and Benefits of Investment Treaties: Practical considerations for states, Columbia Center on Sustainable Investment , volume 190 , p. 3 - 6 Posted: 2018-03
Joachim Pohl
Societal Benefits and Costs of International Investment Agreements: A critical review of aspects and available empirical evidence Posted: 2018-01
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
448
RANK
677,550
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Negotiation & Dispute Resolution eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies