Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Directors’ Service Horizon and Managerial Myopia: Evidence from Real Earnings Management




52 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2021 Last revised: 9 Mar 2025

Rui Wang

Lingnan University

Hong Zou

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: August 31, 2021

Abstract

This study investigates how directors’ service horizon affects real earnings management (REM). By exploiting mergers and acquisitions that terminate directors’ outside appointments on the acquired firms’ boards, we show that independent directors who lose outside board appointments extend their service horizon for remaining directorships and that a decrease in REM follows the extension of director service horizon. The effect of director horizon extension on REM is stronger for directors having more reputation concerns or power to influence financial reporting, for firms with weaker governance mechanisms, and for firms facing lower capital market benefits of meeting or beating earnings expectations. Consistent with enhanced long-term orientation as a result of extended service horizon, we also find a positive impact of director service horizon on firm innovation. Overall, this study sheds light on the important effect of director service horizon on board effectiveness.

JEL Classification: G30; G34; M40

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Rui and Zou, Hong, Directors’ Service Horizon and Managerial Myopia: Evidence from Real Earnings Management (August 31, 2021).
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3914605
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
R Adams
Boards, and the directors who sit on them
The Handbook of the Economics of Corporate Governance , volume 1 , p. 291 - 382 Posted: 2017
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
R Aggarwal , S Dahiya , N R Prabhala
The power of shareholder votes: Evidence from director elections
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , p. 134 - 153 Posted: 2019
A Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
549
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies