Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance and Equity Pricing: The Importance of Countries’ Legal Institutions and Disclosure Regulations

66 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2021 Last revised: 6 May 2024

Ruiyuan (Ryan) Chen

West Virginia University

Sadok El Ghoul

University of Alberta - Campus Saint-Jean

Omrane Guedhami

University of South Carolina - Moore School of Business

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Yang Yang

Southern illinois university carbondale

Date Written: August 22, 2022

Abstract

In cross-country research, we examine the importance of tax avoidance to equity pricing, and the role that institutional infrastructure may play in shaping this link. Analyzing a sample of firms from 58 non-U.S. countries, we report strong, robust evidence that equity financing costs rise when firms take more aggressive tax positions. Additional analysis implies that stricter investor protection institutions and sound disclosure regulation alleviate investors’ concerns about insider diversion, moderating the positive impact of tax avoidance on equity pricing. Collectively, our results suggest that investors recognize the complementarity between insider diversion and tax avoidance in less protective environments.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, cost of equity capital, managerial diversion, institutional environments

JEL Classification: G18, G21, G32, G34, H26

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Ruiyuan and El Ghoul, Sadok and Guedhami, Omrane and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Yang, Yang, Tax Avoidance and Equity Pricing: The Importance of Countries’ Legal Institutions and Disclosure Regulations (August 22, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3914068 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3914068
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
A Ali , A Klein , J Rosenfeld
Analysts' use of information about permanent and transitory earnings components in forecasting annual EPS
The Accounting Review , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 183 - 198 Posted: 1992
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
N Attig , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami , J Suh
Corporate social responsibility and credit ratings
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 117 , p. 679 - 694 Posted: 2013
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Ruiyuan Chen , Sadok El Ghoul , Omrane Guedhami
Conducting Research in International Accounting and Finance: Opportunities, Challenges, and Recommendations
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,451
RANK
644,694
1 Citations
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies