Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Cost Stickiness on Peer-Based Valuation Models

European Accounting Review

48 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2021

Niklas Kreilkamp

University of Giessen

Arnt Wöhrmann

Justus-Liebig-University Giessen

Sophie Teichmann

Justus Liebig University Giessen

Date Written: August 24, 2021

Abstract

We investigate how asymmetric cost behavior (also termed cost stickiness) affects peer-based valuation models. Using a sample of U.S. firms for the period 2000–2016, we provide evidence that the higher the degree of a target firm`s level of cost stickiness vis-à-vis its peer group, the greater is the peer-based underestimation of the firm’s market value (downward peer-based valuation bias). Furthermore, we show that the underestimation of firm value is weaker for firms exhibiting potential for agency issues. Overall, our findings suggest the following: First, using information on cost management strategies reduces the downward peer-based valuation bias. Second, investors partially understand and incorporate available information about cost stickiness into their evaluation of firm value, c.p. leading to deviations from the value estimates of the peer-based models. These models generally do not recognize information on cost stickiness as an input factor. Ultimately, the findings support the assumption that investors assess the likelihood that cost stickiness is either driven by economic or non-economic reasons and adapt their value estimate accordingly.

Keywords: cost stickiness, peer-based valuation, capital market

JEL Classification: M41; G32

Suggested Citation:

Kreilkamp, Niklas and Wöhrmann, Arnt and Teichmann, Sophie, The Effect of Cost Stickiness on Peer-Based Valuation Models (August 24, 2021). European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3914058
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
A W Alford
The effect of the set of comparable firms on the accuracy of the priceearnings valuation method
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 108 Posted: 1992
J An , S Bhojraj , D T Ng
Warranted multiples and future returns
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 143 - 169 Posted: 2010
M C Anderson , R D Banker , R Huang , S N Janakiraman
Cost behavior and fundamental analysis of sg&a costs
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2007
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S N Janakiraman
Are selling, general, and administrative costs "sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
709
RANK
424,948
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies