Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study Analyzing the Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility on Sales of Selected Indian Companies

Paul V., M.T. and Devi, N.U. (2016), “A study on impact of CSR (corporate social responsibility) on sales of Indian companies”, Intelligence Innovation and Inclusion - Best Practices for Global Excellence, 1st ed., Vijay Nicole Imprints Private, pp. 471-480.

14 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2021

Maria Tresita Paul V.

Bharathiar University

Dr. Uma Devi N

Bharathiar University - Bharathiar School of Management and Entrepreneur Development

Date Written: August 30, 2016

Abstract

World Business Council for Sustainable Development defines Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as “The continuing commitment by business to behave ethically and contribute to economic development while improving the quality of life of the workforce and their families as well as of the local community and society at large.” Nearly all leading corporate in India are involved in CSR programmes in areas like education, health, livelihood creation, skill development, and empowerment of weaker sections of the society. In recent years, changing market scenario, globalization, ethical consumerism all are adding heat to the CSR concept. Making profit and is the primary goal of all organizations; thus the companies target to increase their sales every year. In this CSR driven business scenario, it becomes vital to analyse the effect of CSR investments on the sales of the company. This paper gives an theoretical overview of the legal framework of CSR in India, discusses the trends of CSR in India that how CSR once considered as charity by a company has now transformed as a responsibility of the company towards society. This paper also analyzes whether there is any significant relationship between CSR investment and sales and finally, the possible impact of CSR investments on the sales of few companies selected at random for 3 years 2012 to 2015.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Sales, CSR Investment, Correlation and Regression

Suggested Citation:

Paul V., Maria Tresita and Devi N, Dr. Uma, A Study Analyzing the Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility on Sales of Selected Indian Companies (August 30, 2016). Paul V., M.T. and Devi, N.U. (2016), “A study on impact of CSR (corporate social responsibility) on sales of Indian companies”, Intelligence Innovation and Inclusion - Best Practices for Global Excellence, 1st ed., Vijay Nicole Imprints Private, pp. 471-480., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3914275 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3914275
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Corporate Citizenship and Corporate Social Investment: Drivers of Tri-Sector Partnerships , p. 57 - 73 Posted: 2001
Deepika Dhingra and Rama Mittal, CSR Practices in Indian Banking Sector
Global Journal of Finance and Management , volume 6 , issue 9 , p. 853 - 862 Posted: 2014
The Csr Pyramid -Innovative CSR Policies of Mahindra & Mahindra
Shiney chib , volume 2 Posted: 2012-04
Y Satish , Deodhar
India's Mandatory CSR, Process of Compliance and Channels of Spending, Indian Institute Of Management Ahmedabad research & publications
W.P Posted: 2015-05-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
569
RANK
609,870
1 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies