Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Employee representatives, employee related disclosures, and the implementation of the Non-Financial Reporting Directive

41 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2021

Conny Overland

University of Gothenburg, Department of Business Administration

Lana Sabelfeld

University of Gothenburg

Niuosha Samani

University of Gothenburg, Department of Business Administration

Date Written: June 30, 2021

Abstract

We explore how employee representatives on corporate boards influence the extent and the quality of employee related disclosures in light of the recent EU Directive (2014/95) on Non-Financial Reporting (NFR). Using a sample of Swedish firms listed at the Stockholm Stock Exchange, we examine the level and the quality of employee related information before and after the Directive, and compare firms with and without employee representatives. Our results point to higher quality disclosures on employee related matters in firms with employee representatives in general. The results on the effect of the new regulatory requirement indicate that the overall quality of disclosures increases after the regulation, but this increase is only found in firms without employee representatives. We also document that employee related disclosures are more concrete and less uncertain in firms with employee representatives, although the level of uncertainty has increased after the implementation of the Directive. These findings suggest that the regulation contributes to a better quality of employee reporting, when there is a lack of substituting governance mechanisms.

Keywords: Employee representatives, Employee related disclosures, EU Directive (2014/95), NFR, Disclosure quality

JEL Classification: G34, J50, M14, M48

Suggested Citation:

Overland, Conny and Sabelfeld, Lana and Samani, Niuosha, Employee representatives, employee related disclosures, and the implementation of the Non-Financial Reporting Directive (June 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3916035 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3916035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
902
RANK
469,965
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies