Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Country Institutional Factors on Firm Disclosure: Cybersecurity Disclosures in Chinese Cross-Listed Firms

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

37 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2021 Last revised: 6 Jul 2022

Thomas Barry

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Jonathan Jona

University of New Mexico - Robert O. Anderson Schools of Management

Naomi S. Soderstrom

University of Melbourne

Date Written: July 6, 2022

Abstract

This paper explores differences in qualitative disclosures between Chinese firms that cross-list in the US and their US domestic counterparts that reflect firm-level cybersecurity awareness. Consistent with the strong regulatory framework in China externalizing cybersecurity and thus reducing the need to disclose individual company cybersecurity awareness, we find that relative to their US domestic counterparts, Chinese cross-listed firms in the US provide less cybersecurity disclosure. However, market valuation of these cybersecurity disclosures is higher for Chinese cross-listed firms, suggesting that the market more favorably views Chinese firm disclosures that communicate a greater level of internalized cybersecurity awareness. We also explore the effect of institutional setting on market valuation of cybersecurity awareness through an event study surrounding the arrest of Huawei’s CFO. This event highlighted cybersecurity weaknesses at Huawei, potentially more generally challenging the effectiveness of Chinese cybersecurity policies. We find a negative stock market reaction to the event, but only for our Chinese sample. These results provide evidence that the market’s view of company cybersecurity awareness is sensitive to changes in perceptions of companies’ institutional setting.

Keywords: Cybersecurity awareness, Disclosure, Market valuations, Cross-listing, China

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Barry, Thomas and Jona, Jonathan and Soderstrom, Naomi S., The Impact of Country Institutional Factors on Firm Disclosure: Cybersecurity Disclosures in Chinese Cross-Listed Firms (July 6, 2022). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3916525 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3916525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
S Aftergood
Cybersecurity: The cold war online
Nature , volume 547 , issue 7661 Posted: 2017
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell , R Griffith , P Howitt
Competition and innovation: An inverted-U relationship
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , issue 2 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
C Banti , G C Biddle , I Filatotchev , J Jona
Liability of Foreignness in Global Stock Markets: Liquidity Dynamics of Foreign IPOs in the US
, volume 3037214 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
305
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,230
RANK
227,558
3 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies