Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measurement Bias in the Financial Performance of Family Firms

28 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2021

Daniel Dupuis

American University of Sharjah - School of Business and Management

Kunaal Nanik

American University of Sharjah - School of Business and Management

Date Written: September 3, 2021

Abstract

Notwithstanding the impressive body of research focusing on the financial performance of family-led enterprises over their non-family counterparts, no aggregate conclusion can be extrapolated from the existing data. In this article, we show that performance inference is biased and depends exclusively on the combined choice of financial measurements and family taxonomy; any general conclusion drawn from a specific pair of metrics should be interpreted with caution. We analyze the cross-combinations of eighteen variants of family firms with twenty financial metrics to show that family attributes greatly influence hybrid performance measures, display a notable effect on accounting-based metrics but have almost no impact on market returns. These peculiar results are ascribed to the fact that family businesses tend to favor creditors and directors over investors.

Keywords: family firm, financial performance, market returns, accounting performance

JEL Classification: G10, G14, G15

Suggested Citation:

Dupuis, Daniel and Nanik, Kunaal, Measurement Bias in the Financial Performance of Family Firms (September 3, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3916672 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3916672
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
E M Al-Matari , A K Al-Swidi , F H B Fadzil
The measurements of firm performance's dimensions
Asian Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 24 - 49 Posted: 2014
A Ali , T.-Y Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
B Amoako-Adu , B F Smith
Dual class firms: Capitalization, ownership structure and recapitalization back into single class
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 25 , issue 6 , p. 1083 - 1111 Posted: 2001
R Anderson , D Reeb
Founding family ownership and firm performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
803
RANK
552,669
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies