Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee’s Cash Compensation and Earnings Management: The Moderating Effects of Institutional Factors

31 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2021 Last revised: 13 Sep 2021

Radwan Alkebsee

Xi'an International Studies Univesrity; Xian Jiaotong University

Adeeb Alhebry

King Khalid University, 61411 Abha K.S.A

Gaoliang TIAN

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Alexandros Garefalakis

Hellenic Mediterranean University

Date Written: September 3, 2021

Abstract

This paper investigates the relationship between the audit committee’s cash compensation and accrual earnings management. Using a sample of Chinese listed firms over the period 2007 to 2017, findings show a positive association between cash compensation of the audit committee and accrual earnings management. It suggests that high cash compensation to audit committee directors compromises their monitoring role related to financial reporting quality, and high cash compensation to audit committee’s directors leads to an alignment in the audit committee’s interests with those of managers. We also examine the implications of ownership structure and institutional environment on this relationship. Results show that state-ownership significantly moderates the association between the audit committee’s cash compensation and accrual earnings management. We also investigate whether this relationship is influenced by the regional development level or not. Results reveal no difference in this positive association for firms located in more versus less developed regions. Our findings can be of broad interest to regulators in improving corporate governance.

Keywords: Audit Committee; Cash Compensation; Earnings Management; State Ownership; Regional Development

JEL Classification: M40; M10

Suggested Citation:

Alkebsee, Radwan and Alhebry, Adeeb and TIAN, Gaoliang and Garefalakis, Alexandros, Audit Committee’s Cash Compensation and Earnings Management: The Moderating Effects of Institutional Factors (September 3, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3917554 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3917554
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
110 References
L J Abbott , Y Park , S Parker
The effects of audit committee activity and independence on corporate fraud
Managerial Finance , volume 26 , issue 11 , p. 55 - 68 Posted: 2000
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
The cross-national diversity of corporate governance: Dimensions and determinants , volume 28 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
J Aharony , J Wang , H Yuan
Tunneling as an incentive for earnings management during the IPO process in China
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
576
RANK
622,944
1 Citations
110 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies