Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Better Estimate of Internally Generated Intangible Capital

Forthcoming, Management Science

54 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2021 Last revised: 5 Apr 2024

Aneel Iqbal

Thunderbird School of Global Management, Arizona State University

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Anup Srivastava

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Rong Zhao

University of Calgary

Date Written: August 1, 2023

Abstract

Internally developed intangibles are not included in reported assets under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The omission of this increasingly important class of assets reduces the usefulness and relevance of financial statement analysis, conducted with reported values of equity and assets. Recent studies overcome this deficiency by capitalizing research and development (R&D) expenses, to estimate the value of knowledge capital, and by capitalizing selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses, to estimate the value of organization capital. Those two estimates are then added to reported values for financial statement analysis. For convenience, many studies rely on two rules of thumb and assume them to be equally applicable in all instances: (1) 30% of SG&A and 100% of R&D expenses are investments and (2) the useful life of SG&A and R&D investments is three and five years, respectively. We propose a more flexible approach, by estimating the capitalization and amortization parameters on an industry-year–specific basis. Our modified values of total assets and equity, inclusive of the value of capitalized intangibles, exhibit greater association with future returns and investments, compared with as-reported values and values estimated with uniform rules of thumb. We provide a better estimate of intangible capital for the consumers of financial statements.

Keywords: Intangibles, Book Value, Financial Statement Analysis, Valuation

JEL Classification: M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Iqbal, Aneel and Rajgopal, Shivaram and Srivastava, Anup and Zhao, Rong, A Better Estimate of Internally Generated Intangible Capital (August 1, 2023). Forthcoming, Management Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3917998 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3917998
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
D Aboody , Lev B
The value relevance of intangibles: The case of software capitalization
J. Account. Res , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
R D Arnott , C R Harvey , V Kalesnik , J T Linnainmaa
Reports of value's death may be greatly exaggerated
Financ. Anal. J , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 44 - 67 Posted: 2021
C S Asness , R B Porter , R L Stevens
Predicting stock returns using industry-relative firm characteristics. SSRN Electron Posted: 2000
R D Banker , R Huang , R Natarajan , S Zhao
Market valuation of intangible asset: Evidence on SG&A expenditure
Account. Rev , volume 94 , issue 6 , p. 61 - 90 Posted: 2019
Load more
11 Citations
Anup Srivastava
Trivialization of the bottom line and losing relevance of losses
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 1190 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Klaus Friesenbichler , Agnes Kügler , Julia Schieber-Knöbl
Intangible capital as a production factor. Firm-level evidence from Austrian microdata
Applied Economics , p. 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Rong Huang , Xintian Lin , Yuan Xie
Does CDS market price intangible asset value? Evidence from SG&A expenditure
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 61 , issue 2 , p. 701 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Bernd Huefner , Marcel Rueenaufer , Martin Boesch
Value investing via Bayesian inference
Review of Financial Economics , volume 41 , issue 4 , p. 465 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,711
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,929
RANK
6,914
11 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies