Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Litigation and Bank Risk

Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2021 Last revised: 19 Oct 2022

Marta Degl'Innocenti

University of Southampton; University of Milan - Department of Economics, Management and Quantitative Methods (DEMM)

Franco Fiordelisi

University of Essex - Essex Business School

Wei Song

Southampton Business School

Si Zhou

University of Science and Technology Beijing

Date Written: October 18, 2022

Abstract

Does a decrease in shareholder litigation enhance managers’ monitoring efforts by ensuring adequate firm risk management? We explore how state universal demand (UD) laws (which limit shareholder litigation as a mechanism to discipline managers), affect bank holding companies’ (BHCs) risk. Using a difference-in-differences analysis, we show that BHCs reduce their tail risk exposures after the implementation of UD laws, which is achieved by improving loan asset quality. Indeed, BHCs appear to apply stricter contract terms for syndicate loans to risky and opaque borrowers. We also show that UD law implementation leads to changes in BHC board composition by increasing the proportion of outside directors, the number of independent directors in audit committees and the number of independent directors with financial expertise.

Keywords: Derivative lawsuits, Universal demand, BHCs, Risk, Lending, Syndicate loans, Board of directors

JEL Classification: G18, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Degl'Innocenti, Marta and Degl'Innocenti, Marta and Fiordelisi, Franco and Song, Wei and Zhou, Si, Shareholder Litigation and Bank Risk (October 18, 2022). Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3917337 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3917337
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
135 References
P Abedifar , P Molyneux , A Tarazi
Non-interest income and bank lending
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 87 , p. 411 - 426 Posted: 2018
V V Acharya , A N Berger , R A Roman
Lending implications of U.S. bank stress tests: Costs or benefits
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 34 , p. 58 - 90 Posted: 2018
V V Acharya , J N Carpenter , X Gabaix , J Kose , M Richardson , M G Subrahmanyam , R K Sundaram , E Zemel , V Viral , Matthew Acharya , Richardson
Corporate governance in the modern financial sector
Restoring Financial Stability Posted: 2009
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
Load more
3 Citations
Dimitrios Gounopoulos , Emmanouil Platanakis , Haoran Wu , Wenke Zhang
Time is the Witness: Bank Failure Prediction via a Multi-Stage AI Model
59 Pages · Posted: 10 Feb 2023 · Last revised: 14 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 6
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dimitrios Gounopoulos , Emmanouil Platanakis , Haoran Wu , Wenke Zhang
Time is the Witness: Bank Failure Prediction via a Multistage AI Model, and the Importance of Regulating Risk Taking Practices
FMA Europe 2023, EFMA 2023 · 57 Pages · Posted: 13 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 125
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mostak Ahamed , Ranko Jelic
How Inclusive Financial Policies Affect Bank Lending?
JFIN-D-24-00205 · 52 Pages · Posted: 7 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 34
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
232
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,224
RANK
301,058
3 Citations
135 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies