Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Documentation Formality on Auditors’ Learning from Prior Year Workpapers

52 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2021 Last revised: 10 Feb 2024

Sarah E. Bonner

University of Southern California

Tracie M. Majors

University of Southern California

Date Written: February 2024

Abstract

Auditors’ knowledge is critical for audit and financial reporting quality, as it facilitates task performance and information sharing. We examine whether auditors’ acquisition of knowledge from prior year workpapers, a primary means for on-the-job learning, is negatively affected by the commonly-used formal style of workpaper documentation, one that is regimented and rigid. We find that auditors completing a risk assessment task with more (versus less) formal prior year workpaper documentation acquire less knowledge about risk assessment. We posit, and provide empirical support for, this negative effect occurring due to more formal documentation reducing attention to learning-relevant workpaper content, as well as reducing effort devoted to self- explanation of that content. Further, effects flow through to task accuracy. Robustness tests rule out alternative explanations, such as short-term retention of content and other effects of formality. Collectively, these findings highlight the critical need for an intervention, and also have implications outside of auditing.

Keywords: documentation formality, on-the-job learning, prior year workpapers, regulatory inspections, anxiety, audit risk assessment

JEL Classification: G10, M40, M41, M42, D80, D91

Suggested Citation:

Bonner, Sarah E. and Majors, Tracie McDonald, Effects of Documentation Formality on Auditors’ Learning from Prior Year Workpapers (February 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3917557 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3917557
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
M Abdolmohammadi
A Comprehensive Taxonomy of Audit Task Structure, Professional Rank, and Decision Aids for Behavioral Research
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 11 , p. 51 - 92 Posted: 1999
F Abu Sheikha , D Inkpen
Learning to Classify Documents According to Formal and Informal Style
Linguistic Issues in Language Technology , volume 8 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2012
P Alexander , T Jetton
The Role of Importance and Interest in the Processing of Text
Educational Psychology Review , volume 8 , p. 89 - 121 Posted: 1996
R Allen , D Hermanson , T Kozloski , R Ramsay
Auditor Risk Assessment: Insights from the Academic Literature
Accounting Horizons , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 157 - 177 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,096
RANK
285,293
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies