Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Study of Sustainability Reporting Assurance: Current Trends and New Insights

Journal of Accounting and Organizational Change, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2021 Last revised: 1 Nov 2021

Kholod Alsahali

Jubail Industrial College

Ricardo Malagueño

University of Essex

Date Written: September 5, 2021

Abstract

Purpose: This study aims to examine trends in the global assurance practices of sustainability reports, updating and broaden the extant literature and proving new insights that could guide future research.

Design/methodology/approach: The data were collected for 12,783 companies and exploratory descriptive analyses of sustainability reporting assurance practices were undertaken.

Findings: The study shows that assurance growth is lagging behind the growth in sustainability reporting. It reveals that assurer switching is a common practice among companies. There is an increasing trend towards the use of the ISAE 3000 by non-accounting assurers. Additionally, in terms of assurance providers, the study finds that accounting firms are dominating the market, however engineering firms are fast increasing their share of the sustainability assurance market, while consulting firms share is decreasing. However, the switch towards consulting firms is higher than the switch towards accounting firms in the last switch period.

Originality/value: Prior studies on the assurance practices of sustainability reports are limited in scope (concentrate on large companies) and depth (examine accounting vs non-accounting assures and consider the evolving patterns at the institutional rather than firm-level). This study presents developments and trajectories of assurance practices to inform researchers and practitioners on the global trends by bringing an updated and broader perspective on the topic.

Practical implications: Overall, the results of this study provide insights about companies’ assurance practices for regulators, assurance providers and companies interested in assuring their sustainability reports.

Social implications: This study is relevant for companies’ stakeholders, including investors, to enhance their understanding of companies' current assurance practices.

Keywords: sustainability reporting, assurance, non-financial reports, assurance switching

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Alsahali, Kholod and Malagueño, Ricardo, An Empirical Study of Sustainability Reporting Assurance: Current Trends and New Insights (September 5, 2021). Journal of Accounting and Organizational Change, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3917749 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3917749
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
The challenges of assuring integrated reports: Views from the South African auditing community Posted: 2015
Accountability
AA1000 Accountability principles standard
AccountAbility Posted: 2008
Accountability
AA1000 Assurance Standard Posted: 2008
Green transition and innovation in Asia
Association of Academies of Sciences in Asia (AASA) Posted: 2010
Load more
9 Citations
Arif Widyatama , Dian Agustia , Ardianto Ardianto , Noorlailie Soewarno
EFFECT OF INTEGRATED REPORTING AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPUTATION ON COMPREHENSIVE DECISION-MAKING NON-PROFESSIONAL INVESTORS
Business: Theory and Practice , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 488 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Hafiz Muhammad Arslan , Ye Chengang , Bushra Komal , Songsheng Chen
Nexus between environmental disclosures and top management team characteristics: a systematic review
Environmental Science and Pollution Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 9763 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Annika Bonrath , Marc Eulerich , Vanessa Lopez-Kasper
Internal Auditor's Role in ESG Disclosure and Assurance: An Analysis of Practical Insights
Corporate Ownership & Control, Vol. 20, No. 1, 2022 · 9 Pages · Posted: 8 Apr 2022 · Last revised: 5 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 1,718
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Abdulaziz Alomran , Kholod Alsahali
The Role of Long-Term Institutional Ownership in Sustainability Report Assurance: Global Evidence
RIBAF-D-22-00505 · 27 Pages · Posted: 20 Aug 2022 · Downloads: 40
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
365
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,340
RANK
186,854
9 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies