Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Operational Distortion: Compound Effects of Short-termism and Competition

Management Science, volume 68, issue 8, 2022[10.1287/mnsc.2021.4204]

56 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2021 Last revised: 30 May 2025

Xiaoyan Liu

Santa Clara University, Leavey School of Business

William Schmidt

Emory University - Information Systems and Operations Management

Date Written: January 28, 2022

Abstract

Practitioners and academics alike have argued that a firm's interest in its short-term capital market valuation (short-termism) is harmful to the firm's long-term profit. Their argument is intuitive -- when a firm exhibits short-termism, its decision making will cater to the short-term at the expense of the long-term. Some practitioners claim that the adverse effects of increased short-termism become particularly acute in competitive markets. However, there is little academic research that examines the compound effect of short-termism and competition on a firm's operational choices and long-term profit. In this paper, we provide a rigorous analytical model to examine how short-termism and competition can interact to induce a firm to distort its capacity investment and affect its long-term profit. We model a firm that has private information about its market demand, which can be either high or low and is captured by the firm's type. Signaling this private information can influence both the investor's valuation and the competitor's entry decision. We find that operational distortion can emerge not only when short-termism is large, but also when it is small. In fact, when short-termism is sufficiently small, both firm types will distort their operational decision by under-investing in a pooling outcome. We show, however, that the impact of short-termism on a firm's long-term profit is not monotonically negative, and a certain level of short-termism can be beneficial to a firm's long-term profit. The positive impact of incremental short-termism is robust to alternative modeling assumptions, including the form of competition and the investor's risk profile.

Keywords: operational distortion, short-termism, competition, information asymmetry, signaling game

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Xiaoyan and Schmidt, William, Operational Distortion: Compound Effects of Short-termism and Competition (January 28, 2022). Management Science, volume 68, issue 8, 2022[10.1287/mnsc.2021.4204], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3917597 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2021.4204
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Anand , S Krishnan , Manu Goyal
Strategic information management under leakage in a supply chain
Management Science , volume 55 , issue 3 Posted: 2009
John Asker , Joan Farre-Mensa , Alexander Ljungqvist
Corporate investment and stock market listing: A puzzle? The Review of
Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 2 Posted: 2014
Aspen Institute
Overcoming short-termism: A call for a more responsible approach to investment and business management Posted: 2019-01-07
Claudia Assis
Tesla stock falls after report that gigafactory expansion is on hold Posted: 2019-06-20
Load more
1 Citations
Karca Aral , Erasmo Giambona , Luk N. Van Wassenhove
Managerial Flexibility, Capacity Investment, and Inventory Levels
Productions and Operations Management, Forthcoming , INSEAD Working Paper No. 2023/56/TOM · 31 Pages · Posted: 13 Oct 2023 · Last revised: 18 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 142
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
844
RANK
362,694
1 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies