Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Current Developments Regarding the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act

Internal Auditing, 2012, 27(1), 31-37

16 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2021

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Karyl Van Tassel

FTI Consulting Inc.

Philip Innes

FTI Consulting Inc.

Abstract

Increased regulatory scrutiny came in the aftermath of the financial scandals of the early 2000s, notably Enron and WorldCom. In addition to ushering in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, an old law, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) continues to receive attention. The FCPA was originally implemented over 30 years ago. In recent years, the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) have increased their investigation and prosecution of companies and individuals for violation of the FCPA, most recently with an increased focus on individuals. This increased scrutiny resulted from the tension between the ever increasing global economy, even in remote and developing countries of the world, and a US based law, enforced by US regulatory bodies but applied in environments with different values and ideals from those that gave rise to the legislation in the first place. This article examines the role of the FCPA in corporate governance, examines recent enforcement activities by the DOJ and SEC, the law’s impact on US companies, and actions taken by other countries around the world to respond to this issue.

Keywords: Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, FCPA, international accounting, SEC, DOJ

JEL Classification: F13, F38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Murphy and Van Tassel, Karyl and Innes, Philip, Current Developments Regarding the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Internal Auditing, 2012, 27(1), 31-37, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3918516
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
T Christian Schubert , Miller
At Siemens, Bribery Was Just a Line Item
Frontline World Posted: 2009-02-13
Sidley Austin
Another Record Year for FCPA and Anti-Bribery Enforcement
Sidley Update Posted: 2010-01-14
Doug Cornelius
Compliance Bits and Pieces
Compliance Building Posted: 2009-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
437
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies