Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why the Operating Performance of Post-IPO Firms Decreases: Evidence from China

Journal of Risk and Financial Management 2021

16 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2021

Hai Long

Anhui International Studies University; Edith Cowan University

Xiaochen Lin

Krirk University, Thailand

Yu Chen

Krirk University, Thailand

Date Written: September 27, 2021

Abstract

Based on a database of 200 listed firms from the Growth Enterprise Market of China, this paper employs regression models to investigate the significance of IPO capital expenditure to firms’ operating performance. It suggests that a vast majority of pre-IPO money is spent on business development to promote operating performance in order to meet IPO requirements. After the IPO, most of the money is transferred to equity investments in order to increase the firms’ market value quickly, which leads to operating performance decline and deterioration.

Keywords: post-IPO; firm performance; IPO capital; entrepreneurship

JEL Classification: G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Long, Hai and Lin, Xiaochen and Chen, Yu, Why the Operating Performance of Post-IPO Firms Decreases: Evidence from China (September 27, 2021). Journal of Risk and Financial Management 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3918341
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Ahmad-Zaluki Badru ; Ahmad-Zaluki , Nurwati A , Bazeet Olayemi , Badru
Intended Use of IPO Proceeds and Initial Returns
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 19 , p. 184 - 210 Posted: 2021
Rafiuddin Ahmed , Rafiqul Bhuyan
Capital Structure and Firm Performance in Australian Service Sector Firms: A Panel Data Analysis
Journal of Risk and Financial Management , volume 13 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2020
Alanazi
The financial performance of Saudi Arabian IPOs
The impact of performance measures, leverage and efficiency on market value added: Evidence from Iran , volume 4 , p. 149 - 172 Posted: 2003
Asimakopoulos
Firm-specific and Economy Wide Determinants of Firm Profitability: Greek Evidence using Panel Data
Managerial Finance , volume 35 , p. 930 - 939 Posted: 2009
Load more
1 Citations
Feng Han , Xiangjing Wei , Yang Yang
Ipos and Firms’ Financial Distress Risk: International Evidence
RIBAF-D-24-00279 · 43 Pages · Posted: 3 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 36
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
569
RANK
741,762
1 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies