Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Media Analyst Coverage of Socially Responsible Firms: Evidence from Seeking Alpha

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper No. 3918531

49 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2021 Last revised: 10 Nov 2024

Matthew D. DeAngelis

Georgia State University

Danya Mi

Southern Illinois University Edwardsville

James Moon

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Dana Wallace

University of Central Florida - School of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 20, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether a firm’s reputation for corporate social responsibility (CSR) affects the quality of 
analyses published by social media analysts (SMAs). Our analyses are motivated by theory suggesting CSR 
can induce positive affective responses, and individuals are prone to rely on “affect as information,” 
potentially lowering the quality of decision making. Generally, our evidence suggests lower quality SMA 
coverage of firms with good CSR reputations: SMA opinions are both less predictive of future earnings 
news and less responsive to recent earnings news, particularly when that news is bad. This pattern is despite 
the fact that SMAs often discuss earnings and financial news more for firms with high CSR reputations. 
Market-based tests similarly suggest that investors view SMAs’ analyses of earnings announcements to be 
of lower quality for high CSR firms. In fact, we find some evidence that SMA coverage may impair the 
efficiency of the price response following earnings announcements for high CSR firms. Overall, our 
evidence is consistent with a positive affective response to CSR reputation, which impairs SMA coverage 
quality. 

Keywords: Social media, CSR, Social responsibility, Social media analyst, Seeking Alpha

Suggested Citation:

DeAngelis, Matthew D. and Mi, Danya and Moon, James and Wallace, Dana, Social Media Analyst Coverage of Socially Responsible Firms: Evidence from Seeking Alpha (March 20, 2024). Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper No. 3918531, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3918531 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3918531
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
112 References
B K Adhikari
Causal effect of analyst following on corporate social responsibility
J. Corp. Finance , volume 41 , p. 201 - 216 Posted: 2016
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Sci , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
H Amiraslani , K V Lins , H Servaes , A Tamayo
Trust, social capital, and the bond market benefits of ESG performance
Rev. Account. Stud , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 421 - 462 Posted: 2023
J Andreoni
Giving with impure altruism: Applications to charity and Ricardian equivalence
J. Political Econom , volume 97 , issue 6 , p. 1447 - 1458 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
337
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,626
RANK
194,508
112 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies