Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings myopia and private equity takeovers

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2021 Last revised: 10 Apr 2024

Paul Hribar

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting; University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Todd D. Kravet

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Trent Krupa

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Date Written: June 13, 2024

Abstract

We examine the role of private equity in alleviating earnings myopia induced by public markets. We first construct a measure of earnings myopia and show that this measure varies as predicted with determinants and effects of myopia. Then we show that public firms exhibiting earnings myopia realize an increased likelihood of takeover by private equity buyers. Cross-sectional analyses indicate that this relation is strongest when costs of earnings myopia are likely higher. Following private equity takeovers, firms exhibiting greater measures of earnings myopia realize improvements to R&D investment and productivity. The results add to the understanding of the role of private equity in identifying and alleviating earnings myopia within U.S. capital markets. This is important given the increasing size of private equity assets under management. Takeover premiums paid for myopic firms suggest a cost of earnings myopia at approximately 6.9% of firm value.

Keywords: Private equity, Earnings myopia, Real earnings management, Going private

JEL Classification: G23, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hribar, Paul and Kravet, Todd D. and Krupa, Trent, Earnings myopia and private equity takeovers (June 13, 2024). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3919634 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3919634
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
V V Acharya , O Gottschalg , M Hahn , C Kehoe
Corporate governance and value creation: Evidence from private equity
Review of Financial Studies , volume 26 , p. 368 - 402 Posted: 2013
C Aghamolla , T Hashimoto
Managerial myopia, earnings guidance, and investment , volume 40 , p. 166 - 195 Posted: 2023
K Allee , C Do , F Raymundo
Principal component analysis and factor analysis in accounting research
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 2022
B W Ambrose , W Megginson
The role of asset structure, ownership structure, and takeover defenses in determining acquisition likelihood
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 27 , issue 4 , p. 575 - 589 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,898
RANK
278,438
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies