Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cheap-stock tunneling in US rights offerings: empirical evidence and policy implications

49 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2021

Tom Vos

University of Antwerp

Date Written: September 8, 2021

Abstract

This paper is the first paper to comprehensively analyze the impact of disclosure of commitments by insiders to participate in rights offerings in the US. Fried and Spamann (2020) have shown theoretically that such disclosures could help minority shareholders overcome information asymmetries by allowing them to mimic the participation decisions of insiders. This paper finds empirical evidence that these disclosures are not always sufficient to facilitate mimicking. The lack of transferable subscription rights and the presence of private benefits are associated with increases in insider ownership, which suggests that these features are barriers to mimicking. The paper also finds evidence of positive abnormal stock returns around the announcement of insider participation in rights offerings, which suggests that this signals asymmetric information to the market. Together, this is evidence that cheap-stock tunneling may occur in US rights offerings.

Keywords: Rights offering, Tunneling, Asymmetric information, Equity issuance, Pre-emption Rights, Controlling shareholder, Insider ownership

JEL Classification: G14, G32, G34, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Vos, Tom, Cheap-stock tunneling in US rights offerings: empirical evidence and policy implications (September 8, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3919870 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3919870
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Gur Aminadav , Elias Papaioannou
Corporate Control around the World
Journal of Finance , volume 75 , p. 1191 - 1246 Posted: 2020
Vladimir Atanasov , Bernard Black , Conrad S Ciccotello
Law and Tunneling
Journal of Corporation Law , volume 37 , p. 1 - 49 Posted: 2011
Vladimir Atanasov , Bernard Black , Conrad S Ciccotello
Unbundling and measuring tunneling
University of Illinois Law Review , volume 2014 , issue 5 , p. 1697 - 1738 Posted: 2014
Vladimir Atanasov , Bernard Black , Conrad S Ciccotello , Stanley Gyoshev
How does law affect finance? An examination of equity tunneling in Bulgaria
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 96 , issue 1 , p. 155 - 173 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
949
RANK
456,571
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies