Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Financial Statement in Decision Making

24 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2021

Woojin Choi

Seoul National University

Date Written: June 14, 2021

Abstract

The beginning of the third millennium has witnessed massive debate about the role of financial statement in decision making and their responsibilities in the concussions faced global company, however after each hit to major companies we note or see that the fingers are pointed either by covert or explicit to the role of financial statement. There is no doubt that the financial statement takes a major responsibility in this regard, however it has been said that the profession of accounting and monitoring disappointed beneficiaries of financial reports after these shakes because of its negative repercussions and the weakening of the global economy.
As a result, the auditor now are facing pressure from the community because it asks them confirmation of the absence of the manipulation and fraud cases or even if they exist, it expects observers to discover and report then.

To meet needs of the community is a bit of a challenge for each of the researchers in this field and for practitioners of this profession because they face this problem while exercising their business and this require a scientific foundations and practical solutions to deal with it.


Suggested Citation:

Choi, Woojin, The Role of Financial Statement in Decision Making (June 14, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3920990 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3920990
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
M N Darrough , N M Stoughton
Financial disclosure policy in an entry game
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 12 , p. 219 - 243 Posted: 1990
R Verrecchia
Discretionary disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 5 , p. 179 - 194 Posted: 1983
Manaf B Raewf , Thabit , H Thabit
The Student's Satisfaction Influential Factors at Cihan University
International Journal Of Advanced Research in Engineering & Management , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 63 - 72 Posted: 2015
V V Acharya , T C Johnson
Insider trading in credit derivatives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 84 , p. 110 - 141 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,423
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,206
RANK
13,646
1 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies