Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainable Systematic Credit

59 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2021 Last revised: 21 Oct 2021

Peter Diep

AQR Capital Management, LLC

Lukasz Pomorski

AQR Capital Management, LLC

Scott A. Richardson

London Business School; Acadian Asset Management

Date Written: September 7, 2021

Abstract

Interest in sustainable investing has exploded in recent years, initially focused on public equity markets, but now evolving into fixed income. We assess various aspects of sustainable investing for developed market corporate bond markets (both Investment Grade and High Yield). Using a representative set of sustainability measures spanning environment, societal and governance (ESG) constructs we find: (i) credit spreads are only marginally associated with ESG measures, (ii) ESG measures are only marginally associated with standard return forecasting measures for corporate bonds, (iii) ESG measures are not reliably associated with future credit excess returns, and (iv) ESG measures are negatively associated with the future volatility of credit excess returns. While the direct investment impact of sustainability is modest, there is still considerable interest from asset owners to ensure credit allocations are sustainable. We find that it is possible to incorporate (i) both static and dynamic exclusion screens, (ii) positive tilts toward more sustainable issuers, and (iii) economically meaningful reduction in carbon intensity, with minimal portfolio distortions. Thus, a well-implemented systematic approach has the potential to offer attractive risk-adjusted returns in a sustainable manner.

Keywords: ESG, credit, fixed income, portfolio choice, socially responsible investing, CSR

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G23, G34, M14, Q01, Q5

Suggested Citation:

Diep, Peter and Pomorski, Lukasz and Richardson, Scott Anthony, Sustainable Systematic Credit (September 7, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3920988 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3920988
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
A Asvanunt , S Richardson
The Credit Risk Premium
Journal of Fixed Income , p. 6 - 24 Posted: 2017
M Baker , D Bergstresser , G Serafeim , J Wurgler
The Pricing and Ownership of U.S. Green Bonds
Bank of America (2021) ESG in Fixed Income Quarterly , volume 14 Posted: 2021
A Ben Dor , L Dynkin , J Hyman , P Houweling , E Van Leeuwen , O Penniga
DTS (Duration Times Spread)
The Journal of Portfolio Management , p. 77 - 100 Posted: 2007
S Bhojraj , B Swaminathan
How does the corporate bond market value capital investments and accruals?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 14 , p. 31 - 62 Posted: 2009
Load more
2 Citations
Tinghua Duan , Frank Weikai Li , Quan Wen
Is Carbon Risk Priced in the Cross-Section of Corporate Bond Returns?
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA), Forthcoming · 84 Pages · Posted: 24 Nov 2020 · Last revised: 17 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 2,717
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alexey Ivashchenko , Robert Kosowski
Transaction Costs and Capacity of Systematic Corporate Bond Strategies
Financial Analysts Journal, Forthcoming · 63 Pages · Posted: 22 Sep 2023 · Last revised: 8 Jul 2024 · Downloads: 715
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
936
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,776
RANK
57,302
2 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies