Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of SEC Reviewers on Comment Letters

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 6 Oct 2021

Matthew Baugh

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Kyonghee Kim

Michigan State University

Kwang J. Lee

College of Business, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 3, 2021

Abstract

Prior research suggests that even for the same decision task there will be variation in decision outcomes across decision makers due to idiosyncrasies in their styles. This variation brings up a fundamental challenge in the realm of regulations, where consistency of application is of great importance. This study examines whether the idiosyncrasies of individual employees of the SEC contribute to inconsistent regulatory outcomes. Using a sample of SEC comment letters, we show that SEC reviewers’ idiosyncratic style plays a significant role in explaining the cross-sectional variation in filing review outcomes, even after holding firm and disclosure attributes constant. In addition, the likelihood of restatement during the review process varies systemically with the reviewers’ review style. These findings suggest that reviewer style influences shareholders and other stakeholders via its impact on the costs in resolving comment letter issues and the quality of corporate disclosure. They also have public policy implications for the way financial reporting rules and regulations are applied.

Keywords: SEC reviewers, reviewer style, comment letters, restatements, disclosure quality, regulatory consistency

Suggested Citation:

Baugh, Matthew and Kim, Kyonghee and Lee, Kwang J., The Effect of SEC Reviewers on Comment Letters (September 3, 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3920289
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
640
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies