Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SPACs and Forward-Looking Disclosure: Hype or Information?

54 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2021 Last revised: 21 Oct 2021

Kimball Chapman
Richard M. Frankel

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin Business School

Xiumin Martin

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin School of Business

Date Written: October 20, 2021

Abstract

Regulators and legal scholars express concern that SPAC growth results from a disclosure-regulation loophole and that forward-looking disclosure by SPACs can mislead investors. We examine SPAC voluntary disclosure and associated outcomes. SPACs offer a means for firms to become public, but, unlike IPOs, we find SPAC firms frequently provide forward-looking information (e.g., earnings forecasts). Measuring disclosure by tone, the existence of a forecast, forecasting intensity, and forecast growth rates, our results suggest that forward-looking disclosure in SPAC merger announcements does not mislead small investors. Disclosures containing more forecasts are associated with positive returns at the announcement. However, our disclosure measures are not associated with subsequent return reversals. More forecasts are related to positive subsequent return drift, lower redemption rates and bid-ask spreads, and more retail investor buying. We do not find evidence that forecasted sales or EBITDA growth rates are associated with return reversals. In fact, we find a positive relation between forecasted sales growth and returns around the first post-closing earnings announcement. Moreover, correlations between outcomes and disclosure tone are not significant, suggesting that hype, if present, does not sway investors. Our findings do not support the concern that SPACs take advantage of apparent exemption from prosecution under the 1933 Act to hype forward-looking disclosure to deceive shareholders.

Keywords: Forward-looking disclosure, SPAC, Information Asymmetry; Adverse Selection; Liquidity; Disclosure; IPO

JEL Classification: D82, D83, G10, G5, G24, G3, K0

Suggested Citation:

Chapman, Kimball and Frankel, Richard M. and Martin, Xiumin, SPACs and Forward-Looking Disclosure: Hype or Information? (October 20, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3920714 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3920714
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
O Aliaj
US regulator turns spotlight on rosy SPAC projections
Financial Times Posted: 2021-04-08
R Beatty
Auditor reputation and the Pricing of initial public offerings
The Accounting Review , volume 64 , issue 4 , p. 693 - 709 Posted: 1989
I Ben-David , J Birru , A Rossi
The performance of hedge fund performance fees, Fisher College of Business Posted: 2020
E Boehmer , C M Jones , X Zhang , X Zhang
Tracking retail investor activity
The Journal of Finance Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,690
RANK
41,346
3 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies