Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Profitability Analysis with the Fuzzy Logic: A Hospital Example

Corporate Governance and Organizational Behavior Review, 5(2), 17–31. https://doi.org/10.22495/cgobrv5i2p2

15 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2021

Tunay Aslan

Istanbul Aydin University

Cevdet Kizil

Istanbul Medeniyet University

Erdal Yılmaz

Samsun Ondokuz Mayıs Üniversitesi

Date Written: September 09, 2021

Abstract

Implementation of the fuzzy logic is a modern approach for cost-volume-profit analysis and decision-making process under risk and uncertainty (Yuan, 2009). The implementation of the fuzzy logic approach especially makes sense for profit or loss estimations in developing countries, where uncertainties and risks are often observed (Roztocki & Weistroffer, 2005). This study aimed to estimate the profit or loss of indirect Coombs blood test, which is among the 100 blood tests run by the laboratory department of a healthcare organization located in Istanbul, Turkey, that started operations in 2018. Another purpose of the research was to compare the profit or loss estimated by fuzzy logic with the actual values. Research questions of the study were: 1) Can fuzzy logic be used in the health sector’s profitability estimates? 2) What is the estimated success rate of fuzzy logic in the case of uncertainty and complexity? 3) If the fuzzy logic can be used in the health sector’s profit forecasts, how close are the estimated profit sums achieved by the fuzzy logic to the actual profit sums? Based on the findings of the study, profit estimated by the fuzzy logic is in a close range to actual values with a low error rate.

Keywords: Accounting, Finance, Fuzzy Logic, Profitability, Health Sector, Estimation

JEL Classification: C13, C60, I00, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Aslan, Tunay and Kizil, Cevdet and Yılmaz, Erdal, Profitability Analysis with the Fuzzy Logic: A Hospital Example (September 09, 2021). Corporate Governance and Organizational Behavior Review, 5(2), 17–31. https://doi.org/10.22495/cgobrv5i2p2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3921138
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Maliyet muhasebesi Posted: 2006
Türkiye İstanbul
T Aslan , C Kizil
Bulanik mantik yöntemiyle açlik kan şekerikarlilik analizi: Bir sağlik kuruluşunda uygulama [Fasting blood glucose profitability analysis with fuzzy logic method: An implementation in a healthcare organization
Muhasebe ve Denetime Bakış , volume 55 , p. 59 - 84 Posted: 2018
T Aslan , E Yilmaz
Bulanık mantık yöntemi ile belirsizlik şartlarında faaliyet-hacimkar analizi [Costvolume profit analysis in uncertainty conditions using fuzzy logic method
Journal of Business Research Türk , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 534 - 553 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
768
RANK
255,414
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies