Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Response to the Black Lives Matter Movement: Determinants of Speaking Out in Support of Social Causes

80 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2021 Last revised: 3 Jul 2025

AJ Chen

University of British Columbia (UBC)

Patricia Dechow

USC Marshall School of Business

Samuel T. Tan

Singapore Management University

Date Written: June 30, 2025

Abstract

We document that firms vary in their timeliness of support for the Black Lives Matter Movement (BLM) following the death of George Floyd in May 2020, and that timeliness of support is an indicator of authenticity.  We contend that firms that invest more heavily in diversity and inclusion are likely to attract a clientele of stakeholders who view this social attribute of firm culture as important.  We predict that firms that speak out quickly via Twitter or their websites in support of BLM are those that have made such investments and so are confident in the support of their stakeholder networks, relative to firms that wait to express support in conference calls or annual reports, or that remain silent.  Consistent with this prediction, we document that quick-disclosing firms have greater workforce diversity and inclusivity, have boards with greater ethnic diversity, and are more likely to tie executive compensation to diversity and inclusivity.  Consistent with the commitments being authentic, we find that quick-disclosing firms increase their hiring of both Black American employees and Black directors relative to firms that stay silent. Based on our firm-level determinants, we develop an inclusivity index and show that firms with higher levels of the index are more likely to speak out on other social issues, including the Capitol Riots, the Asian Spa Shootings, and voting rights.

Keywords: Black Lives Matter, diversity, equity, inclusion, Twitter, disclosure, directors, social networks, peers, competitors, stock returns, political, community, protests

JEL Classification: M12, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, AJ and Dechow, Patricia and Tan, Samuel T., Corporate Response to the Black Lives Matter Movement: Determinants of Speaking Out in Support of Social Causes (June 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3921985 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3921985
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
142 References
Armed Conflict Location & Event Data Project (ACLED). 2021. About ACLED
E Bakshy , J M Hofman , W A Mason , D J Watts
Everyone's an Influencer: Quantifying Influence on Twitter. WSDM '11: Proceedings of the Fourth ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Mining , p. 65 - 74 Posted: 2011
K Balakrishnan , R Copat , D De La Parra , Ramesh , K
Social Unrest as an Impetus for Racial Diversity: Firm Responses to the Murder of George Floyd Posted: 2022
N Barrymore
Green or Greenwashing? How Manager and Investor Preferences Shape Firm Strategy Posted: 2022
Load more
2 Citations
Mary Brooke Billings , April Klein , Yanting Crystal Shi
Investors’ response to the #MeToo movement: does corporate culture matter?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 897 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Anete Pajuste , Maksims Dzabarovs , Romans Madesovs
Boardroom racial diversity: Evidence from the Black Lives Matter protests
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 170 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
551
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,179
RANK
115,073
2 Citations
142 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies