Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Amendment Thresholds and Voting Rules in Debt Contracts

The Journal of Accounting Research, forthcoming

62 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2021 Last revised: 15 Aug 2025

Judson Caskey

Purdue University - Daniels School of Business

Kanyuan (Kevin) Huang

Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Daniel Saavedra

UCLA Anderson School of Management

Date Written: August 10, 2025

Abstract

Most loan contracts in the US contain a provision for lender voting rules. We study the optimal voting rule that allows lenders to waive a covenant violation. When lenders have heterogeneous preferences, lenient voting rules increase the probability of waivers that allow inefficient investments. Stringent voting rules tend to allocate the marginal vote to lenders who deny waivers after false alarms so that they can renegotiate the loan to extract value from the firm, which incurs deadweight costs. In equilibrium, the optimal voting rule balances these two forces to improve contracting efficiency. We derive and empirically test comparative statics on how the optimal voting rule varies with lenders’ preferences and the borrower’s accounting properties. Our model offers a rationale for the prevalent use of voting rule clauses in syndicated loan contracts. 

Keywords: Debt contracting, voting rule, syndicated loan

JEL Classification: D86, G21, G32, K12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Caskey, Judson and Huang, Kanyuan and Saavedra, Daniel, Amendment Thresholds and Voting Rules in Debt Contracts (August 10, 2025). The Journal of Accounting Research, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3922893 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3922893
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
P Asquith , A Beatty; , J Weber
Performance pricing in bank debt contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2005
C Armstrong , W Guay; , J Weber , S Ball; R , V Kothari; , Nikolaev
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 1071 - 1097 Posted: 2010
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
439
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,131
RANK
151,482
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies