Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Possible Weakening of Financial Accounting from Tax Reforms

32 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2021

Michelle Hanlon

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: April 9, 2021

Abstract

There are past and proposed tax law changes that contain provisions that affect financial reporting. These include calls for book-tax conformity, proposals to increase the links between financial accounting and taxable incomes, and actions by Congress that make direct alterations to U.S. GAAP. I submit that these tax law changes potentially threaten financial reporting quality. I discuss my concerns about why such provisions have not attracted attention from accountants to the extent they should and make a case for more awareness and more research going forward.

Keywords: financial accounting, tax reform

Suggested Citation:

Hanlon, Michelle, The Possible Weakening of Financial Accounting from Tax Reforms (April 9, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3922943 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3922943
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
A Ali , L Hwang , L
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
T J Atwood , M S Drake , L A Myers
Book-tax conformity, earnings persistence and the association between earnings and future cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 111 - 125 Posted: 2010
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
M E Barth
Accounting in 2036: A learned profession. Part I: The role of research
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 6 , p. 383 - 385 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
443
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,307
RANK
149,830
7 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies