Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Change Reporting and Corporate Governance among Asian and African Energy Firms

1st ASEAN International Conference on Energy and Environment (pp. 13-20), Indonesia: ASEAN Centre for Energy 2021

15 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2021 Last revised: 29 Nov 2021

Edmund Narh Amegatcher

Dataking Consulting ; University of Ghana

Emmanuel Tetteh Asare

University of Ghana

King C.T. Duho

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 13, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the energy sector in Africa and Asia to investigate the extent of climate change disclosures of firms. Using institutional theory, the study investigates the organizational, firm governance, country-level factors and global factors that influence climate change disclosures. A quantitative approach is applied to evaluate results from an unbalanced panel data of 31 firms from 18 countries for the periods 2015 to 2020. A composite index to measure the extent of climate change disclosure, with individual indicators (from GRI 305: Emissions) is constructed. The results indicate that energy firms in Asia significantly disclose more on Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions than African energy firms. Furthermore, board size and board diversity are found to be corporate governance factors that significantly affect the climate change disclosure of energy firms. Additionally, the multinational status of a firm in the energy sector and the firms’ level of profitability as measured by its return on assets significantly affect the climate change disclosure of firms. Conversely, cross-listing of firms in stock exchanges across different jurisdictions affects disclosure negatively. Other external global and country-specific factors that significantly influence climate change disclosure are United Nations Global Compact membership and the Human Development Index of a country within which a firm operates. The study however failed to find a significant effect of board independence and the gross domestic product growth of a country on climate change disclosure.

Keywords: Climate change; Corporate governance; Global Reporting Initiative; Energy; United Nations Global Compact

JEL Classification: G3, O13, Q4, Q5

Suggested Citation:

Amegatcher, Edmund Narh and Amegatcher, Edmund Narh and Asare, Emmanuel Tetteh and Duho, King C.T., Climate Change Reporting and Corporate Governance among Asian and African Energy Firms (September 13, 2021). 1st ASEAN International Conference on Energy and Environment (pp. 13-20), Indonesia: ASEAN Centre for Energy 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3922915
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
H Al-Shaer , M Zaman
Board gender diversity and sustainability reporting quality
Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 210 - 222 Posted: 2016
A Amran , V Periasamy , A H Zulkafli
Determinants of climate change disclosure by developed and emerging countries in Asia Pacific
Sustainable Development , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 188 - 204 Posted: 2014
E T Asare , K C T Duho , C Agyenim-Boateng , J M Onumah , S N Y Simpson
Anti-corruption disclosure as a necessary evil: impact on profitability and stability of extractive firms in Africa
Journal of Financial Crime , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 531 - 547 Posted: 2021
F Baalouch , S D Ayadi , K Hussainey
A study of the determinants of environmental disclosure quality: evidence from French listed companies
Journal of Management and Governance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 939 - 971 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
809
RANK
475,518
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies