Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management

6 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2021

Nicol Simpson

Independent

Date Written: September 14, 2021

Abstract

Oftentimes managers in an organization are motivated by some objectives. Accounting systems have many flexibilities and managers take advantage of this flexibilities through private information. Opportunities also lead managers to adopt earnings management approach. In a dark sense, earnings management means adoption of process to misrepresent financial report or reduction of transparency of such information. In a broad sense, earnings management means use of accounting systems either to provide misinformation to shareholder or enhance the accounting number where there is an incentive on that information. In the world of accounting, imperfect information is everywhere. Earnings management is a result of imperfect information. The aim of this essay is to shed a light on what earnings management is, accruals and earnings, earnings and valuation, how to detect earnings management, choice of accounting method and timing, discretionary accruals, where to look for to detect earnings management, asset pricing motivation, contractual motivations, and finally concluding the easy with some interesting findings on earnings management.

Keywords: Earnings management

Suggested Citation:

Simpson, Nicol, Earnings Management (September 14, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3923660 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3923660
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
R L Watts , J L Zimmerman
Positive Accounting Theory: A Ten Year Perspective
The Accounting Review , volume 65 , issue 1 , p. 131 - 156 Posted: 1990
N Alexander
Ownership Structure and Earnings Management, Accounting and Financial Review , volume 4 , p. 38 - 42 Posted: 2019
E S S Alzoubi
Ownership structure and earnings management: Evidence from Jordan , volume 24 , p. 135 - 161 Posted: 2016
S Alves
Ownership Structure and Earnings Management: Evidence from Portugal. Australasian Accounting , volume 6 , p. 57 - 74 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
887
RANK
292,443
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies