Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IPOs and Corporate Taxes

FEDS Working Paper No. 2021-58

52 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2021 Last revised: 1 Dec 2022

Christine Dobridge

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

Rebecca Lester

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Andrew Whitten

U.S. Department of the Treasury - Office of Tax Analysis (OTA)

Date Written: September 1, 2021

Abstract

Does going public affect the amount and type of corporate tax planning? Using a panel of U.S. corporate tax return data from 1994 to 2018, we show that IPO completion is associated with the implementation of multinational income shifting strategies central to the current international tax policy debate. Specifically, firms (i) expand their foreign tax haven presence, (ii) enter into cross-border agreements that accompany intangible asset transfers to foreign subsidiaries, and (iii) increase their level of foreign related-party payments around the time that they go public. The effects are strongest among firms that switch to more sophisticated tax advisors in the years preceding the IPO. In contrast, we observe little domestic tax planning because large stock option deductions, which increase as a consequence of the IPO, provide large domestic tax shields. The paper contributes to the nascent literature studying IPOs by documenting the types and timing of specific tax strategies that enable public firms to remain lightly taxed in the post-IPO period. Furthermore, the findings imply that U.S. tax policies targeted at early-stage innovative firms are critical for retaining domestically developed IP – and the income earned on such assets – for the U.S. tax base.

Keywords: initial public offering (IPO), tax planning, multinational tax

JEL Classification: D12, E21, H24

Suggested Citation:

Dobridge, Christine and Lester, Rebecca and Whitten, Andrew, IPOs and Corporate Taxes (September 1, 2021). FEDS Working Paper No. 2021-58, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3924742 or http://dx.doi.org/10.17016/FEDS.2021.058
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
Joshua D Angrist , Jörn-Steffen Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics Posted: 2008
Brad A Badertscher , Sharon P Katz , Sonja O Rego
The separation of ownership and control and corporate tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 2-3 , p. 228 - 250 Posted: 2013
Brad A Badertscher , Sharon P Katz , Sonja Olhoft Rego , Ryan J Wilson
Conforming tax avoidance and capital market pressure
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2019
Marco Battaglini , Luigi Guiso , Chiara Lacava , Eleonora Patacchini
Tax professionals and tax evasion
NBER Working Paper No Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
261
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,159
RANK
267,591
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Research Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies