Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance of the Japanese Enterprise

Dissabandara. D.B.P.H. and Nakagaki, N. (2004). Corporate Governance of the Japanese Enterprise. Chukyo Keiei Kenkyu, 13(2), pp.27–62. Available at: http://id.nii.ac.jp/1217/00016093/.

36 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2021

Noboru Nakagaki

Chukyo University

Piyal Hareendra Dissa Bandara

University of Sri Jayewardenepura

Date Written: 2004

Abstract

While globalization and IT developments are accelerated, the' management of the enterprise got a different path and required a proper governance for Japanese corporation. Today’s enterprise adapts itself to the change in the socio-economic system that changes rapidly, suitably, and it is developing management activities in this era of mega competition when only the enterprise which always creates value to the enterprise can survive. Moreover, it is the fulfillment of social responsibility of the corporate ethics which reach even the objectives of environmental management. The most recent research findings categorically evidence that a speedy diversification is taking place among Japanese corporations in terms of corporate governance. Amongst many voluntary and legislative reforms, introduction of executive officer system and outside director system are attractive. The executive officer system is flattering more popular at an increasing rate. Meanwhile, the latest corporate governance reforms were able to contribute for the enhancement of the corporate performance of the Japanese enterprises. The latest studies confirm, in statistical terms, the relationship between governance reforms and corporate performance is positively significant.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Financial System, Shareholders, Stakeholders, Board of Directors, Committee System, Corporate Auditors, Corporate Executive Officers

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Nakagaki, Noboru and Dissa Bandara, Piyal Hareendra, Corporate Governance of the Japanese Enterprise (2004). Dissabandara. D.B.P.H. and Nakagaki, N. (2004). Corporate Governance of the Japanese Enterprise. Chukyo Keiei Kenkyu, 13(2), pp.27–62. Available at: http://id.nii.ac.jp/1217/00016093/., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3925780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A A Berle , G C Means
Accounting in Crisis: Reform is urgent, here is what need to be done
Business Week , volume 50 Posted: 1932
Corporate Governance and Managerial Auditing: Toyo Keizai Shimpo-sha, 116 Posted: 2002
F R David
Strategic Management: Concepts and Cases Posted: 1999
D B P H Dissa Bandara
How is the Current View of Japanese Corporate Governance?: A Snapshot of the Corporate Governance Issues in Japan
Annual Research Session Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
370
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies