Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A structuration View to Investigate the Interaction between Management Accounting Practices and Corporate Social Responsibility

Global Journal of Accounting and Economy Research, Vol. 2, No..2, 2021

29 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2021

Mohamed Adel Elhamy

Tanta Univerity

Tariq Hassaneen Ismail

Faculty of Commerce

Nayera Abdeldayem Eltamboly

Tanta Univerity

Date Written: September 16, 2021

Abstract

This research employs structuration theory (ST) as the theoretical framework to examine the interaction between management accounting practices and sustainable corporate social responsibility (CSR). The results confirm that structuration theory recognizes that firm structures can influence human actors' behavior. Simultaneously human actors can reshape the firm structure based on modalities which are interpretive schemes, facility or resources, and norms. So, this theory sheds light on the role of agents' action as a crucial element in the successful implementation of management accounting practices which is ignored. Furthermore, this research pointed out the various effects of the different structures that were proliferated from the interaction between management accounting practices and CSR on the financial statements presented in the annual report of the target company which is subject for the case study, during the years 2017-2019. Hence, it reflects the real impact of these structures have on financial numbers.

Keywords: Structuration Theory, Corporate Social Responsibility, Management Accounting Practices, Performance Measurement, KPIs

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Elhamy, Mohamed Adel and Ismail, Tariq Hassaneen and Eltamboly, Nayera Abdeldayem, A structuration View to Investigate the Interaction between Management Accounting Practices and Corporate Social Responsibility (September 16, 2021). Global Journal of Accounting and Economy Research, Vol. 2, No..2, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3925123
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
528
RANK
614,231
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies