Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Composition and Corporate Social Responsibility: Uncovering the Effects of Co-opted Directors

A new version of this paper is forthcoming in the Journal of Accounting Literature.

28 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2021 Last revised: 13 Sep 2023

Ali I. El Saleh

Responsible Investment Association Australasia

Doureige J. Jurdi

La Trobe University; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: September 18, 2021

Abstract

This study evaluates the effect of board composition on firm corporate social responsibility (CSR) score. We report new evidence which shows a significant and negative association between co-opted directors and the CSR score. This finding is robust to various approaches that account for endogeneity. We also show that the composition of the board of directors impacts the CSR score. The baseline model shows a strong positive association between board independence, CEO duality, women directors, and firm CSR score. Disaggregating the CSR score to its components shows that the presence of co-opted directors on the board adversely affects components of firms’ CSR score and the environment component. Non-co-opted independent directors appear to be the most effective board players in addressing the CSR aspects of the firms.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility; Co-option; Co-opted directors; Corporate governance; Board of directors

JEL Classification: G30, G34, M14

Suggested Citation:

El Saleh, Ali I. and Jurdi, Doureige J., Board Composition and Corporate Social Responsibility: Uncovering the Effects of Co-opted Directors (September 18, 2021). A new version of this paper is forthcoming in the Journal of Accounting Literature., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3925901 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3925901
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
M Arellano , S Bond
Some tests of specification for panel data: Monte Carlo evidence and an application to employment equations
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 297 Posted: 1991
M Arellano , O Bover
Another look at the instrumental variable estimation of error components models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 51 Posted: 1995
R Blundell , S Bond
Initial conditions and moment restrictions in dynamic panel data models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 87 , p. 115 - 143 Posted: 1998
G A Baghdadi , L H Nguyen , E J Podolski
Board co-option and default risk
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 64 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
304
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,353
RANK
228,376
2 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies