Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Copycat Skills and Disclosure Costs: Evidence from Peer Companies’ Digital Footprints

Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 59, Issue 4

Posted: 20 Sep 2021

Sean Cao

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Kai Du

Pennsylvania State University

Baozhong Yang

Georgia State University - J. Mack Robinson College of Business

Alan L. Zhang

Iowa State University - College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 1, 2021

Abstract

We examine whether firms that imitate peer companies’ strategies (copycats) profit from such behavior and how their success may cause competitive harm to disclosing companies. We identify copycat companies by tracking the digital footprints of investment companies that view disclosures on the SEC EDGAR Web site. We find that copycat companies are able to identify profitable trades that outperform other trades disclosed by the copycatted companies by 5.5% annually. Such stock-screening skills are related to investment sophistication and research intensity. Furthermore, copycats inflict greater damage on the performance of disclosing companies when they possess superior copycat skills, when disclosed trading strategies take longer to complete, and when disclosed stock holdings are characterized by high information asymmetry.

Keywords: copycat; disclosure; SEC EDGAR; hedge fund; investment company; investment research; proprietary cost; big data

JEL Classification: G11, G14, G23

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Sean S. and Du, Kai and Yang, Baozhong and Zhang, Alan L., Copycat Skills and Disclosure Costs: Evidence from Peer Companies’ Digital Footprints (September 1, 2021). Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 59, Issue 4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3925634
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
671
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies