Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How is the Current View of Japanese Corporate Governance?: A Snapshot of the Present Corporate Governance Issues in Japan

Dissandara, D.B.P.H. (2004). How Is the Current View of Japanese Corporate Governance?: A Snapshot of the Present Corporate Governance Issues in Japan. Journal of the Graduate School of Business Administration, Chukyo University, 4(6), pp.89–127. Available at: http://id.nii.ac.jp/1217/00008497/.

39 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2021

Piyal Hareendra Dissa Bandara

University of Sri Jayewardenepura

Date Written: 2004

Abstract

This study examines the latest literature on Japanese corporate governance with a view to identify the nature of current view of the Japanese corporate governance and thereby recognizes major contemporary issues to be handled. More specifically this study attempts to address three main empirical questions. (i) How far has the recent reform of corporate governance progressed? (ii) What factors determine a company's reform effort? And (iii) Do reforms actually improve the level of corporate performance? The results show an increasing trend of shifting the Japanese corporations toward the market model. There is a remarkable priority on shareholders and customers maintaining the emphasis on employees. Both executive officer system and outside director systems are being introduced widely, ensuring proper segregation between 'execution' and 'monitoring' instead of traditional seniority based promotions within the corporation. The relationship between governance reforms and corporate performance is positively significant and corporate governance reforms are contributing to improve performance considerably. Adequate disclosure of information has a significant impact on corporate performance by increasing pressure on managers and helpful to trim down the agency problem. Nevertheless, there is no significant relationship between corporate performance and introduction of 'executive officer system' or 'outside director system'. Companies with high level of foreign shareholding and high dependence on capital markets are dynamically reforming their governance structures while companies with a high ratio of stable stockholders and more dependence on borrowing are inactive in reforming.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Financial System, Shareholders, Stakeholders, Board of Directors, Committee System, Corporate Auditors, Corporate Executive Officers, Execution, Monitoring and Performance

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Dissa Bandara, Piyal Hareendra, How is the Current View of Japanese Corporate Governance?: A Snapshot of the Present Corporate Governance Issues in Japan (2004). Dissandara, D.B.P.H. (2004). How Is the Current View of Japanese Corporate Governance?: A Snapshot of the Present Corporate Governance Issues in Japan. Journal of the Graduate School of Business Administration, Chukyo University, 4(6), pp.89–127. Available at: http://id.nii.ac.jp/1217/00008497/., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3926302
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
J Charkham
Keeping Good Company: A Study of Corporate Governance in Five Countries Oxford Posted: 1994
E Chell , G Edn , C Symon , Cassell
Critical Incident Technique
Qualitative Methods and Analysis in Organizational Research , p. 51 - 72 Posted: 1999
T E Cooke , E Sawa
Corporate Governance Structure in Japan-form and reality , volume 6 , p. 217 - 223 Posted: 1998
Delottelearning Corporate Governance
Posted: 2003-04-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
439
RANK
914,805
4 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies