Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Media, Reputational Risk, and Bank Loan Contracting

49 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2021

Leonardo Becchetti

University of Rome Tor Vergata - Faculty of Economics

Stefano Manfredonia

Fordham University

Date Written: September 20, 2021

Abstract

This paper investigates how reputational risk arising from traditional and online media coverage of Corporate Social Irresponsibility (CSI) conducts affects the cost of borrowing. It reports that negative media attention has a significant and positive effect on bank loan costs. The result is robust to endogeneity concerns and alternative measures of key variables. It as well analyses other factors that can mitigate or amplify this effect. It reveals that the impact of negative media attention is more severe if the misconduct involves borrowers with high Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) reputations. The findings also show that when prior lending relationships exist between the lead arranger and the borrower, the impact is smaller.

Keywords: bank sustainability performance, corporate social responsibility, negative media attention, business ethics

JEL Classification: G21, M14

Suggested Citation:

Becchetti, Leonardo and Manfredonia, Stefano, Media, Reputational Risk, and Bank Loan Contracting (September 20, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3927156 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3927156
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
J Armour , C Mayer , A Polo
Regulatory sanctions and reputational damage in financial markets
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 52 , issue 4 , p. 1429 - 1448 Posted: 2017
T Berg , A Saunders , S Steffen
The total cost of corporate borrowing in the loan market: Don't ignore the fees
The Journal of Finance , volume 71 , issue 3 , p. 1357 - 1392 Posted: 2016
A N Berger , G F Udell
Some evidence on the empirical significance of credit rationing
Journal of Political Economy , volume 100 , issue 5 , p. 1047 - 1077 Posted: 1992
M Berlin , L J Mester
Deposits and relationship lending
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 579 - 607 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
789
RANK
381,025
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies