Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants and Consequences of Sustainability Narrative and Graphical Disclosures

64 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2021

Jie Hao

Susquehanna University, Sigmund Weis School of Business

Zabihollah Rezaee

University of Memphis - School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 20, 2021

Abstract

We examine the determinants and consequences of both narrative and graphical presentations of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) sustainability disclosures. Drawing on a sample of hand-collated data of top 200 firms from the US and Europe from 2016-2018, we find that: (1) EU firms under the mandatory ESG disclosure regime disclose better quality and quantity of ESG graphical and narrative presentations than US firms under the voluntary disclosure regime; and (2) firms with low ESG sustainability narratives and graphs quality and quantity exhibit lower financial performance (ROA), lower long-term market performance, and lower financial reporting quality than those with high quality and quantity of ESG narrative and graphical disclosures. Our results are robust after performing additional analyses in addressing potential endogeneity concerns. Overall, our findings provide policy, practice, and research implications as they highlight the importance of more uniform and rigorous ESG graphical and narrative sustainability disclosures.

Keywords: ESG sustainability disclosure, Narrative and graphical presentations, Financial and market performance, Financial reporting quality

JEL Classification: E01, F18, F64, G28

Suggested Citation:

Hao, Jie and Rezaee, Zabihollah, Determinants and Consequences of Sustainability Narrative and Graphical Disclosures (September 20, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3927388 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3927388
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
988
RANK
398,904
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies