Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Disclosure and Financial Performance: The Case of Islamic and Conventional Banks in the GCC

Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business Research, NO: 10.1108/JIABR-11-2020-0343

19 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2021 Last revised: 15 Jun 2022

Ayman E. Haddad

American University of Kuwait

Hussain Alai

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 21, 2021

Abstract

Purpose – This study aims to explore the extent of risk disclosure (RD) among conventional banks (CBs) and Islamic banks (IBs) listed on stock markets in the Gulf cooperation council (GCC). It also examines the influence of RD on the banks’ financial performance as measured by return on assets (ROA) and return on equity (ROE).

Design/methodology/approach – This study uses content analysis to examine RD in the annual reports of 16 CBs and 14 IBs in the GCC for a sample of 240 firm-year observations over the period 2007 to 2014.

Findings – The study shows no significant differences between the RD reported in the annual reports of CBs and that of IBs. On average, a CB reported 234 sentences while an IB disclosed 244 sentences of RD in its annual report. The authors also find that both types of banks had an upward trend over the periods. While the means of RD reported by CBs have significantly improved over the period, the RD reported by IBs has not. Similar results are also found when the authors compared the RD pre- and post-financial crisis period. Finally, the authors find that there is a significant association between RD and both models of financial performance (ROA and ROE) for IBs, after controlling other variables. However, RD has a significant association with only ROE for CBs.

Research limitations/implications – The bank selection was restricted to publicly traded banks in the GCC. Other financial institutions and different types of industries were not considered. Further research could determine whether the results obtained in this study could be generalized to different industries in the GCC and or in other countries.

Practical implications – This study provides evidence on the significant association between RD and the financial performance of CBs and IBs in GCC countries. This study could be helpful to regulatory authorities in encouraging banks to adopt the best practice of RD and thus promote banks’ transparency.

Originality/value – This is the first known study to examine the RD practices of both types of banks and their association with banks’ financial performance in five-GCC countries (Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates and Bahrain), based on a longitudinal analysis of year-end annual reports, covering eight years period from 2007 to 2014.

Keywords: GCC, Conventional banks, Financial performance, Islamic banks, Risk disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Haddad, Ayman E. and Alai, Hussain, Risk Disclosure and Financial Performance: The Case of Islamic and Conventional Banks in the GCC (September 21, 2021). Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business Research, NO: 10.1108/JIABR-11-2020-0343, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3927655 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3927655
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
Aaoifi
Governance Standard for Islamic Financial Institutions No. 1, Shari'a Supervisory Board: Appointment, Composition and Report Posted: 2010
A A N Abdallah , M K Hassan , P L Mcclelland
Islamic financial institutions, corporate governance, and corporate risk disclosure in Gulf cooperation council countries
Journal of Multinational Financial Management , volume 31 , p. 63 - 82 Posted: 2015
M Abdullah , Z Abdul Shukor , Z M Mohamed , A Ahmad
Risk management disclosure: a study on the effect of voluntary risk management disclosure toward firm value
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 400 - 432 Posted: 2015
Y Abdul-Rahman
The Art of Islamic Banking and Finance: tools and Techniques for Community-Based Banking Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
575
RANK
848,823
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies