Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How does corporate social responsibility engagement affect the information content of stock prices?

Managerial and Decision Economics, 1– 24. https://doi.org/10.1002/mde.3452

56 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2021

Ramzi Benkraiem

Audencia Business School

Sabri Boubaker

Ecole de Management de Normandie

Asif Saeed

National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences (NUCES or FAST-NU)

Date Written: September 22, 2021

Abstract

This paper investigates the effect of corporate social responsibility on the
information content of stock prices. Using a sample of 877 U.S.-listed firms, we
provide evidence that a firm’s CSR performance has a negative effect on stock price
synchronicity, suggesting that socially responsible firms commit themselves to high
transparency standards, leading to more informative stock prices. Moreover, the
negative relationship between sustainable corporate policies and stock price
synchronicity is more pronounced in better-governed, highly competitive, and
closely monitored firms. Our findings are robust to potential endogeneity problems,
additional control variables, and alternative sample composition. This study
contributes to the literature by providing original insights on the CSR performance
link with firm-specific information impounded in stock prices. Further, we uniquely
contribute to the CSR dimensions literature by separately analyzing which CSR
dimension contributes to improving the firm’s information environment.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility; Stock price synchronicity; Corporate governance

JEL Classification: G14; G30; G34; M14

Suggested Citation:

Benkraiem, Ramzi and Boubaker, Sabri and Saeed, Asif, How does corporate social responsibility engagement affect the information content of stock prices? (September 22, 2021). Managerial and Decision Economics, 1– 24. https://doi.org/10.1002/mde.3452, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3928411
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
594
RANK
521,283
1 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies