Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Firms Time Changes in Accounting Estimates to Manage Earnings?

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2021 Last revised: 6 Oct 2021

Philip Keunho Chung

Christopher Newport University

Marshall A. Geiger

University of Richmond

Daniel Gyung H. Paik

University of Richmond - Accounting

Collin Rabe

University of Richmond

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 23, 2021

Abstract

We investigate whether firms time their decisions to make changes in accounting estimates (CAEs) in consideration of their earnings benchmarks. Using CAE data from 2006-2018, we find that 28.1 percent of income-increasing CAEs are implemented in quarters where pre-CAE earnings are below a forecasted earnings benchmark but inclusion of the CAE effectively allows the firm to meet the benchmark. We find that income-increasing CAEs are more likely implemented when a firm’s pre-CAE earnings are further below the benchmark. We also find that firms are more likely to implement income-decreasing CAEs under two scenarios: 1) when pre-CAE earnings are relatively high, as a way to either smooth earnings or to “bury bad news,” and 2) when pre-CAE earnings are already low, as a way to take a financial “big bath” and position the firm for positive future earnings. Additionally, we present evidence that firms using CAEs to achieve an earnings benchmark face financial consequences in terms of poorer immediate stock price performance and subsequent return on assets. Our conclusions hold after performing several additional analyses, including consideration of other discretionary options, addressing endogeneity concerns and conducting falsification tests. In sum, we contribute to the earnings management literature by presenting consistent evidence that firms appear to time CAEs to meet earnings benchmarks or achieve other reporting objectives.

Keywords: Change in accounting estimate (CAE), earnings management, earnings benchmarks, discretionary financial reporting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Chung, Philip and Geiger, Marshall A. and Paik, Daniel Gyung H. and Rabe, Collin, Do Firms Time Changes in Accounting Estimates to Manage Earnings? (September 23, 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3929616 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3929616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
A A Acito , J J Burks , W B Johnson
The materiality of accounting errors: Evidence from SEC comment letters
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 839 - 868 Posted: 2019
Audit Analytics
An Overview of 17 Years of Changes in Accounting Estimates Posted: 2017
J Barton , P Simko
The balance sheet as an earnings management constraint
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
369
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,142
RANK
184,612
2 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies