Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the impact of IFRS on audit fees differ between early and late adopters?

Tawiah, V (Forthcoming) Does the impact of IFRS on audit fees differ between early and late adopters. International Journal of Accounting and Information Managment

34 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2021

Vincent Tawiah

University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; Griffith University; University of Cape Coast; Dublin City University Business School

Date Written: September 23, 2021

Abstract

Objective/Purpose: We examine whether the impact of IFRS on audit fees differs between early and late adopters.
Data/Methodology: We employ robust econometric estimation on a sample of 314 firms from both early and late IFRS adopting countries
Findings: We find that IFRS is positively and significantly associated with an increase in audit fees for early adopters, but the impact is very weak for late adopters and insignificant in some cases. The results on auditing time suggest that increase in audit fees around IFRS adoption is due to increase in audit reporting lags. After accounting for pre and post years, we find that the relationship between IFRS and audit fees, as well as audit time for late adopters, is significant only in the adoption year. However, early adopters experience a significant increase in audit fees and audit time in the transition year to one-year post-adoption.
Policy implication: Our findings imply that countries that are yet to adopt IFRS are less likely to experience a significant increase in audit fees audit time. Hence is probable that the benefit of IFRS will outweigh the cost.
Originality/Value. The results, therefore, suggest that early adopters paid a premium for been the first users of IFRS, which is consistent with any innovation. Our study provides new insights by demonstrating that the consequences of IFRS differ between early and late adopters.

Keywords: Africa, audit fees, audit reporting lags, early adopters, late adopters, IFRS

Suggested Citation:

Tawiah, Vincent and Tawiah, Vincent, Does the impact of IFRS on audit fees differ between early and late adopters? (September 23, 2021). Tawiah, V (Forthcoming) Does the impact of IFRS on audit fees differ between early and late adopters. International Journal of Accounting and Information Managment, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3929381
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
References , E Afify
Determinants of audit report lag: Does implementation of corporate governance have any impact
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 56 - 86 Posted: 2009
H Agyei-Boapeah , M Machokoto , J Amankwah-Amoah , A Tunyi , S Fosu
IFRS adoption and firm value: African evidence
Accounting Forum , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2020
S Amirul , M Salleh
Convergence to IFRS and audit report lag in Malaysia , volume 5 , p. 9 - 16 Posted: 2014
E N Asien
Exploring the state of the audit market in Nigeria
African Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 287 - 307 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
664
RANK
560,264
3 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies