Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluation of the competences of modern accounting specialist: cases of Lithuania and Latvia

42 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2021

Rasa Subačienė

Vilnius University; Vilnius University

Ramunė Budrionytė

Vilnius University

Jolanta Žemgulienė

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ivita Faituša

RISEBA University of Applied Sciences

Date Written: September 23, 2021

Abstract

A rapid change of economic environment, development of technologies, global crisis such as current pandemic makes a mark and enhances new requirements for many professions as well as accounting specialists. However, accounting profession plays an important role and forms most of financial information at micro and macro levels. Analysis of competences necessary for the modern accounting specialist provides the insights for the required abilities not only at labor market aspect, but is important at the initial preparation of the specialist stage at education institutions by developing study programs.

The article investigates competences of modern accounting specialist. For the evaluation of competences, the survey was conducted in November, 2020 – April, 2021 in Lithuania and Latvia. Data of 387 responses (182 LT and 205 LV) were assessed by attributes of respondents' country, work experience, current working position and the size category of the entity. In addition, the personal, professional and social competences necessary types of professional knowledge were evaluated. Research results may be summarised on traditional viewpoint on accounting specialist. Despite different attributes basically respondents emphasised the need of classical types knowledge (financial accounting, external reporting, calculation and accounting of taxes, payroll accounting) for accounting specialist with slight differences. As well as traditional competences of personal sphere (accuracy, responsibility, integrity, analytical skills and logical thinking), professional sphere (the ability to record economic transaction to accounting documents and registers and ability to prepare financial statements) and social sphere (ability to communicate with colleagues and persons from other institutions, ability to cooperate with colleagues, ability to work in team). 5 factors measured competences as determination and abilities of higher level specialists, capacity of accounting specialist to prepare, systemize and form accounting information, abilities to analyse and evaluate information, apply new knowledge, abilities of accounting specialist to perform classical functions and social abilities.


Keywords: accounting specialist, competences, Lithuania, Latvia

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Subačienė, Rasa and Subačienė, Rasa and Budrionytė, Ramunė and Žemgulienė, Jolanta and Faituša, Ivita, Evaluation of the competences of modern accounting specialist: cases of Lithuania and Latvia (September 23, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3929445 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3929445
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
H Aldamen , H Alkhateeb , K Kercher , K Duncan , J Hollindale
Core competencies for the global workplace: A cross-cultural and skill-based simulation project in accounting
Accounting Education Posted: 2021
K Barac , K Plant , R Kunz , M Kirstein
Generic Skill Profiles of Future Accountants and Auditors -Moving Beyond Attributes
Higher Education, Skills and Work-Based Learning Posted: 2020
I Bruna , K Senkus , R Subaciene , R Sneidere
Evaluation of Perception of the Accountant's Role at the Enterprise in Latvia and Lithuania
European Research Studies Journal , volume XX , issue 3A , p. 143 - 163 Posted: 2017
C Chen , C Garven , S , A Jones , K , T Scarlata , A , N
Is career guidance sending the right message about accounting work? Comparing accounting with competing professions
Accounting Education Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
406
RANK
759,678
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies