Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Underleveraging and Acquisitions

65 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2021

Magnus Blomkvist

EDHEC Business School

Karl Felixson

Swedish School of Economics and Business Administration

Anders Löflund

Hanken School of Economics

Hitesh Vyas

Audencia Business School

Date Written: September 24, 2021

Abstract

This paper investigates the Morellec and Zhdanov (2008) prediction that firms strategically underleverage to win takeover contests. In line with the MZ commitment hypothesis, we find that greater pre-bid leverage reduction is linked to greater acquisition activity. We document support for three specific MZ model predictions: pre-merger underleveraging increases with (i) bidding competition, (ii) synergies offered by targets and (iii) transaction size. Our analysis rules out several explanations linked to financial flexibility as explanations for the results. We therefore find consistent evidence that strategic underleveraging conditional on the acquisition outlook is an important determinant of capital structure dynamics.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Security Offerings, Capital Structure, Optimal Capital Structure. Trade-off Theory

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Blomkvist, Magnus and Felixson, Karl and Löflund, Anders and Vyas, Hitesh, Strategic Underleveraging and Acquisitions (September 24, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3929870 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3929870
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
N Aktas , A Boone , A Witkowski , G Xu , B Yurtoglu
The Role of Internal M&A Teams in Takeovers
Review of Finance , volume 25 , p. 1047 - 1088 Posted: 2021
N Aktas , E De Bodt , R Roll
Negotiations Under the Threat of an Auction
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 98 , p. 241 - 255 Posted: 2010
N Aktas , D Petmezas , H Servaes , N Karampatsas
Credit Ratings and Acquisitions
Journal of Corporate Finance Posted: 2021
A Alti
How Persistent Is the Impact of Market Timing on Capital Structure?
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , p. 1681 - 1710 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
702
RANK
572,087
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies