Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bankruptcy Prediction via Earnings Distributions

63 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2021 Last revised: 7 Sep 2023

Tim Vater

University of Cologne - Department of Corporate Finance

Simon Wolf

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics

Date Written: September 06, 2023

Abstract

We forecast firm-specific earnings distributions using quantile regressions and advance bankruptcy prediction models by adding the expected probability to realize future accounting losses as a predictor variable. This significantly and substantially enhances forecast accuracy, both in-sample and out-of-sample. Further, we provide evidence that these improvements translate into reduced risk positions and increased profits for banks in practical settings. Besides, we provide empirical evidence for a size effect and an asset tangibility effect that impacts the relation between losses and bankruptcy risk. Our approach is interesting to researchers and practitioners for at least three reasons: First, it improves their estimates of a firm’s bankruptcy risk. Second, it is applicable to private firms as it does not depend on market data. Third, it is a methodological framework that can also address tasks besides bankruptcy prediction by testing a firm’s future earnings distribution against different threshold values (e.g., a required rate of return).

Keywords: Default, Bankruptcy, Bankruptcy Prediction, Earnings Forecasts, Earnings Distributions, Accounting Losses, Cross-Sectional Models, Quantile Regression

JEL Classification: C21, C53, G17, G33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Vater, Tim and Wolf, Simon, Bankruptcy Prediction via Earnings Distributions (September 06, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3929521 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3929521
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
V Agarwal , R Taffler
Comparing the Performance of Market-Based and Accounting-Based Bankruptcy Prediction Models
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 32 , issue 8 , p. 1541 - 1551 Posted: 2008
H Akaike
A New Look at the Statistical Model Identification
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control , volume 19 , issue 6 , p. 716 - 723 Posted: 1974
E Alanis , S Chava , P Kumar
Shareholder Bargaining Power, Debt Overhang, and Investments, The Review of Corporate
Finance Studies , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 276 - 318 Posted: 2018
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,281
RANK
318,538
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies