Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Financial Performance and Tobin’s Q in Dividend and Growth Investing

Contemporary Economics (2021), Vol. 15 No. 3, pp. 276-288

13 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2021

Hanna Mysaka

Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv

Ivan Derun

Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv

Date Written: September 8, 2021

Abstract

Investor attracting and keeping requires both successful management of a company’s financial performance and an investor’s behavior knowledge, as well as monitoring of stock market current trends. This paper contains the study results on the influence of public companies’ financial performance on Tobin’s q as a common measure of investment opportunity for dividend (income) investors and growth investors in conditions of competition and financing limitations. The goal of this article is to identify the financial performance indicators of public companies, influencing their Tobin’s q, for dividend (income) investing and growth investing respectively. We determined that the proxies for the variables of the Tobin’s q function should be different for different investment styles. For this reason, we composed two sets of financial ratios that reflect financial performance specifics of dividend (income) stock companies and growth stock companies for the quantitative assessment of these investor types’ preferences. The analysis results led to the conclusion that a company can attract attention of dividend (income) investors by demonstrating higher levels of dividend payments. Whereas, growth investors are sensitive to the level of company’s business activities, which is related to its revenue. Based on the results of this study, we believe that investment decisions’ successfulness depends on the reliability of the issuer’s financial statements. In our conclusions, we suggest that public companies’ managers focus on the financial performance that best correlate with the preferences of certain type of investors, which is a promising way to attract and keep their investors.

Keywords: Dividend (income) investors, financial performance, growth investors, Tobin’s q

JEL Classification: G32, M41, G11

Suggested Citation:

Mysaka, Hanna and Derun, Ivan, Corporate Financial Performance and Tobin’s Q in Dividend and Growth Investing (September 8, 2021). Contemporary Economics (2021), Vol. 15 No. 3, pp. 276-288, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3929437
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
H A N Al-Malkawi , R Pillai
Analyzing financial performance by integrating conventional governance mechanisms into the GCC Islamic banking framework
Managerial Finance , volume 44 , issue 5 , p. 604 - 623 Posted: 2018
A Alstadsaeter , M Jacob , R Michaely
Do dividend taxes affect corporate investment? Journal of Public Economics , volume 151 , p. 74 - 83 Posted: 2017
J Asker , J Farre-Mensa , A Ljungqvist
Corporate investment and stock market listing: A puzzle? Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , p. 342 - 390 Posted: 2015
N Barberis , A Shleifer
Style investing
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 68 , issue 2 , p. 161 - 199 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
649
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,971
RANK
93,293
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies