Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Performance Impact of Gender Diversity in the Top Management Team and Board of Directors: A Multiteam Systems Approach

Human Resource Management, 61(2): 157-180

Posted: 23 Nov 2021 Last revised: 10 Apr 2023

Jie Wu

Chair Professor of Strategy and Entrepreneurship; University of Aberdeen; Area Editor, Technovation; Associate Editor, Asian Business & Management

Orlando C. Richard

University of Massachusetts Amherst

Mar ́ıa del Carmen Triana

Vanderbilt University

Xinhe Zhang

University of Macau

Date Written: September 25, 2021

Abstract

Given the mixed evidence that having both women and men in the top management team (TMT) or in the board of directors (BOD) has a significant influence on organizational innovation, we resolve this issue by conceptualizing TMT-BOD gender diversity as part of a multiteam system, that has joint effects which impact organizational innovation. Evidence from the study of both Chinese firms and United Kingdom firms confirm our conceptualization by showing an interaction effect between TMT gender diversity and BOD gender diversity such that innovation is greatest when both are high. The positive TMT-BOD gender diversity interaction effect on innovation improves subsequent firm performance, particularly in dynamic environments. The findings refine current thinking by going beyond research that tests intra-team TMT or BOD diversity independently and instead considers inter-team diversity across both leadership teams within the strategic leadership upper echelons. In sum, findings show that high levels of TMT and BOD gender diversity result in more organizational innovation, which ultimately improves firm performance. We offer implications for women’s inclusion in leadership as well as for research on the upper echelons.

Keywords: Gender diversity, innovation, environmental dynamism, top management team, board of directors, multiteam systems

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Jie and Richard, Orlando C. and Triana, Mar ́ıa del Carmen and Zhang, Xinhe, The Performance Impact of Gender Diversity in the Top Management Team and Board of Directors: A Multiteam Systems Approach (September 25, 2021). Human Resource Management, 61(2): 157-180, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3930637 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3930637
 Not Available for Download
145 References
G Ahuja , C M Lampert
Entrepreneurship in the large corporation: A longitudinal study of how established firms create breakthrough inventions
Strategic Management Journal , volume 22 , p. 521 - 543 Posted: 2001
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple regression: Testing and interpreting interactions Posted: 1991
D Ancona , D Caldwell
Demography and design: Predictors of new product team performance
Organization Science , volume 3 , p. 321 - 341 Posted: 1992
G Andrevski , O C Richard , J D Shaw , W J Ferrier
Racial diversity and firm performance the mediating role of competitive intensity
Journal of Management , volume 40 , p. 820 - 844 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,028
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies