Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Harnessing the Overconfidence of the Crowd: A Theory of SPACs

80 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2021 Last revised: 17 Jan 2024

Snehal Banerjee

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Finance

Martin Szydlowski

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Economics

Date Written: September 24, 2021

Abstract

In a SPAC transaction, a sponsor raises financing from investors using redeemable shares and rights. When investors are sophisticated, these features dilute the sponsor’s stake and can lead to underinvestment in profitable targets. However, when investors are overconfident about their ability to respond to interim news, the optionality in such features is overpriced, and SPACs can lead to over-investment in unprofitable targets. Consistent with empirical evidence, the model predicts different returns for short-term and long-term investors and overall underperformance. While some policy interventions (e.g., eliminating redemption rights, limiting investor access, and restricting warrants) improve returns for unsophisticated investors, others (e.g., increased disclosure) can be counterproductive.

Keywords: SPACs, Overconfidence, Redeemable Shares

JEL Classification: G23, G24, G32, G41, D86, D90

Suggested Citation:

Banerjee, Snehal and Szydlowski, Martin, Harnessing the Overconfidence of the Crowd: A Theory of SPACs (September 24, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3930346 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3930346
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Aydogan Alti , Jonathan B Cohn
A model of informed intermediation in the market for going public , volume 4058787 Posted: 2022
Jessica Bai , Angela Ma , Miles Zheng
Reaching for Yield in the Going-Public Market: Evidence from SPACs. Available at SSRN Posted: 2020
B Jonathan , Richard C Berk , Green
Mutual fund flows and performance in rational markets
Journal of Political Economy , volume 112 , issue 6 , p. 1269 - 1295 Posted: 2004
B Jonathan , Jules H Berk , Van Binsbergen
Regulation of charlatans in high-skill professions
The Journal of Finance , volume 77 , issue 2 , p. 1219 - 1258 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
937
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,308
RANK
57,232
7 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies