Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Shared Analyst Coverage on Financial Statement Comparability

51 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2021 Last revised: 15 Aug 2022

Abdul Mohi Khizer

Indian School of Business; Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 20, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the impact of shared analyst coverage on the comparability of financial statements. Analysts form information expectations based on the portfolio of firms they follow. I document that managers cater to analyst information expectations by increasing the comparability of their financial statements with that of other firms in the analyst portfolio. The findings are robust to two exogenous shocks: brokerage house closures and regulation fair disclosure. The increase in comparability is achieved by modifying accounting policies related to depreciation, acquisition/sales, inventory, investment tax credit, and PP&E. The effect is concentrated among firms characterized by strong corporate governance, poor information environment, and firms that employ principle-based accounting. Additionally, managers cater to the expectations of prominent analysts differentially more than other analysts. Overall, this study documents the role of analyst expectations in shaping financial reporting choices and the comparability of financial statements.

Keywords: Shared Analysts; Financial Statement Comparability; Analyst Networks; Analyst Influence

JEL Classification: D82; D83; G24; M41; G34; L14; L21

Suggested Citation:

Khizer, Abdul Mohi, Impact of Shared Analyst Coverage on Financial Statement Comparability (June 20, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3930921 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3930921
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
I Alfaro , N Bloom , X Lin
The finance uncertainty multiplier Posted: 2018
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of financial markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
K.-H Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
K Balakrishnan , M B Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Shaping liquidity: On the causal effects of voluntary disclosure
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 2237 - 2278 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,521
RANK
318,538
1 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies