Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Sharing in Omnichannel Operations: Impact of Information Errors

46 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2021 Last revised: 21 Oct 2024

Jizhou Lu

Central University of Finance and Economics

Leela Nageswaran

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Jinpeng Xu

Xidian University

Jin Kyung Kwak

Ewha Womans University

Srinagesh Gavirneni

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Date Written: October 21, 2024

Abstract

Omnichannel firms often share information between their channels (e.g., between the online channel and a physical store) to improve their operational and financial performance. In reality, the information is often error-prone. We study when such information sharing is advisable if there exist errors in the way the data is collected, transmitted, or both. We construct and analyze a multi-period inventory management model with autoregressive uncertain demands that are linked between two channels of an omnichannel firm. Our findings reveal a counterintuitive result: even when information is error-free, sharing it can be detrimental to the firm. Furthermore, we demonstrate that both source errors and transmission errors increase the firm's costs. However, these two types of errors have distinct impacts on the value of information sharing. While transmission errors consistently diminish its value, source errors can sometimes enhance it. Moreover, we identify a lead time amplification effect: longer lead times magnify both the positive and negative values of information sharing. Our numerical experiments suggest that for a typical omnichannel firm, sharing information can reduce the long-run average cost by, on average, 2.7-4.8% depending on the type of error. Our findings provide guidance on when omnichannel managers dealing with erroneous information may want to re-evaluate their information sharing strategy. In cases when information sharing is detrimental, we also inform how investments can be made to mitigate these errors so that firms can better achieve their objectives. By considering two types of errors and general lead times for an omnichannel firm, our work also makes a contribution to the literature on information sharing.

Keywords: Information sharing, information errors, omnichannel retailing, inventory sharing

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Jizhou and Nageswaran, Leela and Xu, Jinpeng and Kwak, Jin Kyung and Gavirneni, Srinagesh, Information Sharing in Omnichannel Operations: Impact of Information Errors (October 21, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3931934 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3931934
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
258
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,264
RANK
270,833
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies