Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Co-Opetition for Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability: Can it Influence Firm Performance?
Industrial Marketing Management

43 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2021 Last revised: 29 Nov 2021 Publication Status: Preprint

Ricarda Bouncken

University of Bayreuth

Amit Kumar

University of Newcastle

Julia Connell

Curtin University

Asit Bhattacharyya

CQ University Australia

Abstract

Despite the importance of corporate responsibility and sustainability (CRS), research is deficient on how co-opetition (collaboration with competing firms) can support firm performance. Our work adopts a stakeholder perspective to investigate the relationship between co-opetition in CRS and firm performance. Findings from 215 firms confirm that co-opetition in CRS can lead to improved financial and social firm performance. Further, stakeholder attributes (i.e., effective power and legitimate stake) moderate the relationship between co-opetition in CRS and firm financial performance. However, there was no evidence of moderation for the co-opetition in CRS – firm social performance relationship. We demonstrate that improved firm performance may be achieved through the promotion of CRS initiatives when a co-opetitive approach is adopted, particularly where an understanding of stakeholder attributes is also evident. Our new conceptual framework has both practical and research implications for co-opetition in CSR and firm performance.

Keywords: Coopetition, Corporate Social Responsibility, Sustainability, Alliances

Suggested Citation:

Bouncken, Ricarda and Kumar, Amit and Connell, Julia and Bhattacharyya, Asit, Co-Opetition for Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability: Can it Influence Firm Performance?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3931711
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
R Adams , S Jeanrenaud , J Bessant , D Denyer , P Overy
Sustainability-oriented innovation: A systematic review
International Journal of Management Reviews , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 180 - 205 Posted: 2016
B R Agle , R K Mitchell , J A Sonnenfeld
Who matters to Ceos? An investigation of stakeholder attributes and salience, corpate performance, and CEO values , volume 42 , p. 507 - 525 Posted: 1999
H Aguinis , A Glavas
What we know and don't know about corporate social responsibility: A review and research agenda
Journal of Management , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 932 - 968 Posted: 2012
M Akpinar , Z Vincze
The dynamics of coopetition: A stakeholder view of the German automotive industry
Industrial Marketing Management , volume 57 , p. 53 - 63 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
747
1 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Specialities
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies