Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Antecedents of Corporate Social and Environmental Irresponsibility

orporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 21(5): 286-300

Posted: 28 Sep 2021 Last revised: 2 Jun 2022

Jie Wu

Chair Professor of Strategy and Entrepreneurship; University of Aberdeen; Area Editor, Technovation; Associate Editor, Asian Business & Management

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

This study combines internal and external perspectives to examine the antecedents of corporate social and environmental irresponsibility. In terms of internal factors, we focus on the extent to which a firm incorporates corporate social responsibility (CSR) into its business strategy and the level of firm-specific R&D investment. With respect to external factors, we focus on market cost pressure and local government corruption. We developed hypotheses and tested them using original survey data of 295 Chinese firms covering four years. The results show that incorporating corporate social responsibility into business strategy and investing in R&D both predict less socially or environmentally irresponsible behavior by a firm. In contrast, cost pressures and government corruption correlate with an increased likelihood of irresponsible social and environmental behavior by firms.

Keywords: corporate social and environmental irresponsibility, corporate social responsibility, research and development, costpressure, corruption, emerging economies, China

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Jie, The Antecedents of Corporate Social and Environmental Irresponsibility (2014). orporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 21(5): 286-300, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3931290
 Not Available for Download
60 References
L S Aiken , Sg ; West , C A Oaks , J A Aragón-Correa
Strategic proactivity and firm approach to the natural environment
Academy of Management Journal , volume 41 , issue 5 , p. 556 - 567 Posted: 1991
J S Armstrong
Social irresponsibility in management
Journal of Business Research , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 185 - 213 Posted: 1977
J Armstrong , T Overton
Estimating nonresponse bias in mail surveys
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 396 - 402 Posted: 1977
J S Armstrong
The value of formal planning for strategic decisions: Review of empirical research
Strategic Management Journal , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 197 - 211 Posted: 1982
Load more
1 Citations
Jia Meng , ZhongXiang Zhang
Corporate Environmental Information Disclosure and Investor Response: Empirical Evidence from China's Capital Market
FEEM Working Paper No. 3, 2022 · 50 Pages · Posted: 2 Feb 2022 · Last revised: 7 Feb 2022 · Downloads: 206
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
249
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies