Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Key drivers of cybersecurity audit effectiveness: a neo-institutional perspective

43 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2021

Tina Vuko

University of Split - Business and Tourism

Sergeja Slapničar

University of Queensland

Marko Čular

University of Split - Business and Tourism

Matej Drašček

Hranilnica LON d.d.

Date Written: July 01, 2024

Abstract

The aim of this paper is to analyze which factors explain the effectiveness of internal audit in providing assurance about cybersecurity risk management. Based on neo-institutional theory, we hypothesize that coercive (cybersecurity regulation), normative (professionalization of internal auditors and Boards) and mimetic forces (outsourcing of cyber security assurance services) positively contribute to cybersecurity audit (CSA) effectiveness. As these forces do not come about in an interest free model, we study the role of and the interaction with other actors who shape the CSA practices – Boards and security experts. We hypothesize that Board's support to CSA, and the level of internal auditors’ cooperation with the first and the second line of defense positively affect CSA effectiveness. To test our hypothesis, we conducted a survey involving IT auditors and Chief Audit Executives from various industries, organizations of different sizes, and countries. We examined the hypothesised relationships in a series of regression analyses. We find that normative forces (professionalization of the internal auditors and Boards’ competences), Board’s support to CSA and cooperation between the IAF and the first two line of defense significantly explain the CSA effectiveness. We find no support for the effect of regulation as a coercive force and outsourcing as a mimetic force. We discuss potential reasons for our findings and their implications. The paper is an original analysis that advances our understanding of key drivers of CSA effectiveness and their relationships.

Keywords: cybersecurity, internal audit, assurance, neo-institutional theory, institutional entrepreneurs, Board of Directors, three lines of defense JEL codes: M42, M15

JEL Classification: M42, M15

Suggested Citation:

Vuko, Tina and Slapničar, Sergeja and Čular, Marko and Drašček, Matej, Key drivers of cybersecurity audit effectiveness: a neo-institutional perspective (July 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3932177 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3932177
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
W S Albrecht , K R Howe , D Schueler
Evaluating the effectiveness of internal audit departments Posted: 1988
A A M Al-Twaijry , J A Brierley , D R Gwilliam
The development of internal audit in Saudi Arabia: An institutional theory perspective
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 14 , issue 5 , p. 507 - 531 Posted: 2003
A Alzeban , D Gwilliam
Factors affecting the internal audit effectiveness: A survey of the Saudi public sector
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 74 - 86 Posted: 2014
S Appelbaum , A Steed
The critical success factors in the client-consulting relationship
Journal of Management Development , volume 24 , p. 68 - 93 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
414
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,732
RANK
162,079
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Cybersecurity, Privacy, & Networks eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies