Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Review of the Effect of Family Ownership on Capital Structure

13 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2021

zehao chen

Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University (XJTLU), International Business School Suzhou, Students

Siyuan Zhang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jiaqi Wang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 29, 2021

Abstract

Family-owned companies occupy a large proportion of enterprises all over the world. It is meaningful for people to understand how family ownership may affect firms’ financing strategies. This paper tends to summarize the results of previous studies. However, different scholars reach different results of the correlation between family ownership and debt levels. Some scholars get the result of positive correlation, some get the negative correlation, and others conclude that the correlation does not exist. We apply corporate finance theories such as the pecking order theory, the agency cost theory, and the trade-off theory to previous studies to explain the differences. In the empirical analysis, we find that sample selection bias and omit variable bias exist in previous works. One significant reason that leads to the collisions among previous researchers is the ambiguous definition of family businesses and the disagreement about the definitions. Hence, we conclude several identities of family businesses and make some suggestions to future researchers.

Keywords: family ownership, capital structure, corporate finance theory

JEL Classification: G20;G32

Suggested Citation:

chen, zehao and Zhang, Siyuan and wang, jiaqi, Review of the Effect of Family Ownership on Capital Structure (September 29, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3932810 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3932810
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
La Porta , R Lopez-De-Silanes , F Shleifer , A
Corporate ownership around the world
The journal of finance , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 471 - 517 Posted: 1999
K Smyrnios , R Walker
Australian family and private business survey Posted: 2003
Overview of family-business-relevant issues: research, networks, policy measures and existing studies Posted: 2009
M C Shanker , J H Astrachan
Myths and realities: Family businesses' contribution to the US economy-A framework for assessing family business statistics
Family business review , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 107 - 123 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
781
RANK
487,089
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies