Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk-to-ESG: Does Better ESG Performance Lead to Better Financial Health of Company?

Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Konstantin Ignatov

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: June 30, 2021

Abstract

Based on a sample of estimated Distance-to-Default values and Arabesque S-Ray® ESG performance scores of US companies in period from 2013 to 2019, the study shows evidence for significant positive relation of ESG performance to reduced levels of firm’s financial risks and thus finds evidence supporting risk mitigation theory view of ESG engagement. While looking at individual pillars of ESG performance, the study finds evidence for positive effect of all three pillars on reduced levels of firm’s financial risk in normal, non-crisis market environment, with Governance having largest impact out of three pillars.The analysis of COVID-19 crisis in 2020 shows that despite recouped stock market losses throughout the year, the average Distance-to-Default of companies has not improved since the March-April collapse due to increased levels of leverage and ongoing economic uncertainty. Based on the evidence obtained with data covering the first year of the coronavirus pandemic, the study also finds positive significant effect of ESG performance on Distance-to-Default risk metric in crisis market environment, with Social and Governance areas demonstrating statistically significant results, while the Environment pillar remaining irrelevant to the market. Robustness analyses based on daily observations as well as the beta regression econometric model confirm the results obtained in the main part of this study.

Keywords: COVID-19, coronavirus, corporate social responsibility, default, ESG, financial risk, risk mitigation, sustainability

Suggested Citation:

Ignatov, Konstantin, Risk-to-ESG: Does Better ESG Performance Lead to Better Financial Health of Company? (June 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3933849
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
582
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies