Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Strategy and Systematic Risk: Evidence from China

Journal of Corporate Accounting and Finance 2021

Posted: 23 Nov 2021

Jahidur Md Rahman

Wenzhou-Kean University

Lantian Jia

Independent

Rakiba Sultana

Independent

Date Written: August 13, 2021

Abstract


Guided by their business strategies, firms develop their competitive advantages and overcome systematic risks by allocating their limited resources. This study explores how advertising, labor, R&D, cost, and capital intensities are correlated with the systematic risks of 10 industries in the Chinese market. The results show that these correlations vary between industries. To easily adapt to market variations and reduce systematic risks, decision-makers are advised to design their business strategies according to the characteristics of their respective industries.

Keywords: business strategy, systematic risk, R&D intensity, advertising intensity, capital intensity, labor intensity, cost intensity

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Jahidur Md and Jia, Lantian and Sultana, Rakiba, Business Strategy and Systematic Risk: Evidence from China (August 13, 2021). Journal of Corporate Accounting and Finance 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3933124
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
267
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies