Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compliance of Corporate Governance and Profitability Among Publicly-Listed Banks in the Philippines: Basis for an Intervention Program

10 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021 Last revised: 6 Dec 2021

Lord Eddie Aguilar

University of Mindanao

Jesus Dale Aquino

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jamaldi Huzaynal

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Bahjin Datu Zainal Aziz

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 30, 2021

Abstract

Good governance serves as key element in the profitability of an entity. The banking sector is the fundamental contributor to the economic growth and development in virtually all countries. The objective of the study is to determine the level of compliance with the code of corporate governance and profitability of publicly listed banks in the Philippines and to provide an intervention program to improve the levels. The study used the ASEAN Corporate Governance Scorecard of 15 publicly listed banks in the Philippines from 2014 to 2018. Mean was used as a statistical tool to determine the level of compliance with corporate governance practices and the profitability of the companies. The result showed publicly listed banks in the Philippines have a low level of compliance on corporate governance as per indicator except for “Role of Stakeholders," which is high. The profitability of most banks is at a marginal level through the use of return on equity (ROE) and return on asset (ROA). The annual gathering of shareholders aside from the annual stockholders meeting is suggested to be the intervention program. This is to address the lack of relationship building and communication among shareholders.

Keywords: Descriptive study, ASEAN Corporate Governance Scorecard, Publicly-Listed Banks, CAMEL’s rating, Intervention Program

Suggested Citation:

Aguilar, Lord Eddie and Aquino, Jesus Dale and Huzaynal, Jamaldi and Datu Zainal Aziz, Bahjin, Compliance of Corporate Governance and Profitability Among Publicly-Listed Banks in the Philippines: Basis for an Intervention Program (September 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3933580 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3933580
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
M Al-Sa'eed
Compliance With The Principles Of Corporate Governance:Different Perspectives From Jordan , volume 12 Posted: 2013
R Aulia
The Effect of Good Corporate Governance Practices on Bank Financial Performances
School of Economics and Management Posted: 2013
B Black
How Corporate Governance Affects Firm Value: Evidence on Channels from Korea
Social Science Research network , p. 1 - 53 Posted: 2010
T Boloupremo , S Ogege
Corporate Governance and Financial Performance of Banks: Evidence from Nigeria , volume 10 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
612
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,918
RANK
101,005
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies