Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Signing blank checks: The roles of disclosure and reputation in the face of limited information

55 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2021 Last revised: 29 Aug 2022

Andrea Pawliczek

University of Colorado at Boulder

A. Nicole Skinner

University of Colorado at Boulder

Sarah L. C. Zechman

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Date Written: August 24, 2022

Abstract

We examine the roles of disclosure and manager reputation in raising capital when there is no commercial substance underlying the investment. Special Purpose Acquisition Companies (SPACs or “blank check” companies) do not have operations or substantive assets at IPO but promise to use the funds raised to acquire a private firm, generally within two years. It is unclear how SPACs attract investors given the lack of information and historically poor performance. While disclosure is important in traditional IPOs, the incentives and information available differ for SPACs. Nonetheless, we find disclosures are useful to investors, though differently than for traditional IPOs. We also consider manager reputation, as SPACs allow for identification of the manager separately from the entity. Specifically, we find SPAC and CEO experience, and celebrity status are associated with capital raised. Even when an investment lacks commercial substance, disclosure, along with reputation, play important roles in investing decisions.



Keywords: Disclosure, Managerial reputation, SPAC, Special purpose acquisition companies, IPO

JEL Classification: G24, G34, M41, M50

Suggested Citation:

Pawliczek, Andrea and Skinner, Ashley Nicole and Zechman, Sarah L. C., Signing blank checks: The roles of disclosure and reputation in the face of limited information (August 24, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3933259 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3933259
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
J Alcacer , W Chung
Location strategies and knowledge spillovers
Management Science , volume 53 , issue 5 , p. 760 - 776 Posted: 2007
J Bai , A Ma , M Zheng
Segmented Going-Public Markets and the Demand for SPACs Posted: 2021
L S Bamber , J Jiang , I Y Wang
What's my style? The influence of top managers on voluntary corporate financial disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
M E Barth , W R Landsman , D J Taylor
The JOBS Act and information uncertainty in IPO firms
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 6 , p. 25 - 47 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
689
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,264
RANK
86,364
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies