Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sentimental Sustainability: Does What Companies Say Tell More Than What Companies Do?

Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Konstantin Ignatov

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: September 29, 2021

Abstract

Based on a sample of more than eleven thousand unique 10-K reports of US companies filed with SEC in period 2013 to 2018, this study examines the relationship between actual sustainability performance of companies evaluated by MSCI ESG performance scores and the extent and scope of sustainability-related information disclosure in their annual reports. The study shows empirical evidence supporting the theory of voluntary disclosure of ESG information in annual reports for most industries, while environmentally unfriendly companies from the mining industry show excessive reporting behavior favoring environmental topics, which is consistent with incentives to improve public image and mitigate social, political, and legal risks and thus with the legitimacy theory of information disclosure. The ESG disclosure scores based on inverse document frequency model following Loughran and McDonald (2011) showed significant results in econometric analysis even after controlling for past sustainability performance and firm-specific characteristics such as size, book-to-market ratio, asset productivity, and leverage. The use of recently introduced ESG dictonary from Baier et al. (2020) also allows to split the ESG disclosure into separate ESG pillar categories. The study shows evidence for positive relationship of environmetal and social disclosure scope with their respective actual performance categories, while the extent of governance-related disclosure shows negative relation to actual governance pillar performance. Using the forward-looking words library introduced by Li (2008), this study also shows that annual reports of companies belonging to the mining industry do not contain more forward-looking ESG information and thus future promises and commitments regarding sustainability improvements relative to other industries, which otherwise could contradict the reasoning of the legitimacy theory in environmentally unfriendly industries. When differentiating between forward and non-forward ESG statements, the study shows that companies providing more forward-looking ESG information in annual reports show better year-over-year actual ESG performance.

Keywords: Content analysis, corporate social responsibility, ESG, information disclosure, sustainability disclosure, textual analysis, textual tone, ESG performance

Suggested Citation:

Ignatov, Konstantin, Sentimental Sustainability: Does What Companies Say Tell More Than What Companies Do? (September 29, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3933185
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
393
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies