Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political costs of disclosure

46 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2021 Last revised: 12 Apr 2024

David Godsell

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: October 1, 2021

Abstract

A large political cost literature suggests that managers alter disclosures to avoid political costs. This inference is predicated on the assumption that disclosures can affect political costs. There is no empirical support, however, for this assumption. The purpose of this study is to investigate whether disclosures affect political costs. To test whether disclosures affect political costs, I examine the effect of an exogenous source of variation in firm disclosures on a novel measure of political costs. I identify exogenous variation in disclosures using the staggered promulgation of FASB standards affecting different industries at different times. I measure variation in political costs using a new measure of firms’ regulatory burden that captures restrictions imposed on the firm by the U.S. government’s 375 departments and agencies. I document that political costs increase when disclosures increase, suggesting, for the first time, that disclosures do, in fact, affect political costs. A wide variety of robustness tests corroborate this inference. My study offers the first evidence in support of the crucial assumption that disclosures affect political costs and, as such, increases the credibility of the primary inference in the political cost literature: managers alter disclosures to avoid political costs.

Keywords: political costs of disclosure; regulatory burden; FASB standards

JEL Classification: F52, G34, G38, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Godsell, David, Political costs of disclosure (October 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3933504 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3933504
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
176 References
E G See , Klasa Ali , Yeung ; Amiram , Frank Bauer
Posted: 2014
Vashishtha Balakrishnan , ; Verrecchia , Cazier
Gaver and Utke Posted: 2016
Mauldin Glendening , Lin Shaw ; Li , Zhang ; Mcmullin , Twedt Miller
Sethuraman Posted: 2017
D Aboody , M Barth , R Kasznik
2004a. Firms' voluntary recognition of stock-based compensation expense
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 123 - 150
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
427
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,828
RANK
156,382
1 Citations
176 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies