Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of CSR Information Presentation Order on Stakeholder Decision-Making

37 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2021 Last revised: 17 Feb 2025

Dennis Fehrenbacher

Institute of Accounting, Control and Auditing (ACA), University of St.Gallen; Department of Accounting, Monash Business School, Monash University

Naomi S. Soderstrom

University of Melbourne

Date Written: January 08, 2025

Abstract

Recent disclosure mandates focus on reporting information about nonfinancial dimensions of performance regarding corporate environmental social and governance (ESG) activities and impacts. Unlike financial information, few programs teach students how to read and interpret ESG disclosures. Further, ESG information tends to be nonfinancial, non-standardized, and lacks a consistent measurement basis (e.g., tons of emissions or kilowatt hours of energy). This makes it difficult for decision makers to aggregate and process ESG information. In a laboratory experiment employing eye-tracking technology, we find that participants expend more effort processing ESG information. The additional processing is focused on understanding which metrics are disclosed. Further analysis indicates that familiarity with evaluating ESG performance is associated with how decision-makers include ESG information in overall performance evaluations. Our results have implications for both standard setting and future accounting curricula.

Keywords: Sustainability reporting, stakeholder decision-making, standard-setters, goal preferences, experiment, eye-tracking

Suggested Citation:

Fehrenbacher, Dennis and Soderstrom, Naomi S., Effect of CSR Information Presentation Order on Stakeholder Decision-Making (January 08, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3934065 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3934065
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
M Arnold , A Bassen , R Frank
Timing effects of corporate social responsibility disclosure: An experimental study with investment professionals
Journal of Sustainable Finance and Investment , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 71 Posted: 2018
R D Banker , H Chang , M J Pizzini
The balanced scorecard: Judgmental effects of performance measures linked to strategy
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2004
F Berg , J F Koelbel , R Rigobon
Aggregate confusion: The divergence of ESG ratings
Review of Finance , volume 26 , issue 6 , p. 1315 - 1344 Posted: 2022
J C Bol , G Hecht , G Smith , S D
Managers' discretionary adjustments: The influence of uncontrollable events and compensation interdependence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 159 Posted: 2015
Load more
2 Citations
William D. Brink , Karen De Meyst , Tim V. Eaton
The Impact of Human Rights Reporting and Presentation Formats on Non-Professional Investors’ Perceptions and Intentions to Invest
Sustainability , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 2403 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Paul Coram , Brad Potter , Naomi Soderstrom
Professional financial statement users’ perceived value of carbon accounting disclosures and decision context
Meditari Accountancy Research , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 887 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,004
RANK
369,949
2 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies