Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants and Career Consequences of Early Audit Partner Rotations

57 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2021 Last revised: 15 Feb 2024

Brandon Gipper

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Luzi Hail

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Christian Leuz

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Leibniz Institute SAFE; CESifo Research Network; Center for Financial Studies (CFS)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 22, 2024

Abstract

We analyze a sample of 3,973 within-audit firm partner rotations for Big 6 issuer clients from 2008 to 2014 and find that partner rotations occurring early—before the end of the maximum five-year term—are associated with major audit quality issues such as financial restatements or PCAOB inspection findings. This link to audit quality is present only for early rotations that are not explained by retirements, promotions, or temporary leaves, and for large clients and less experienced partners. Female partners are more likely to be rotated for audit quality reasons. New incoming partners are more senior and have more time for the engagement. Early rotations have career consequences. Exiting partners are assigned to fewer, less risky SEC issuer clients, manage fewer audit hours, and receive lower partner ratings. Our results suggest that early partner rotations serve an important role for quality control within audit firms.

Keywords: auditor rotation, audit quality, audit partners, career development, audit industry, PCAOB

JEL Classification: J01, J44, L84, M21, M49

Suggested Citation:

Gipper, Brandon and Hail, Luzi and Leuz, Christian, Determinants and Career Consequences of Early Audit Partner Rotations (January 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3934660 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3934660
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
References
Lawrence J Abbott , Colleen Boland , William Buslepp , Sean Mccarthy
U.S. audit partner identification and auditor reporting
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 41 , issue 1 Posted: 2022
Daniel Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Daniel Aobdia
The economic consequences of audit firms' quality control system deficiencies
Management Science , volume 66 , issue 7 , p. 2883 - 2905 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
526
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,538
RANK
77,728
1 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies