Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sunshine after the Rain? The Stock Market Performance of Family Firms In and After Financial Crises

Risk Governance and Control: Financial Markets & Institutions

14 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2021

Fabio Franzoi

Zeppelin University

Mark Mietzner

Leipzig University of Applied Sciences - HTWK Leipzig

Date Written: September 30, 2021

Abstract

This study applies financial crises as an exogenous shock to family and non-family firms to identify differences in stock market performance. We investigate 278 firms listed on the German Stock Exchange in the world financial crisis starting in 2007 as well as the Euro crisis starting in 2010. Based on the methodology of Gompers, Ishii, and Metrick (2003), we form portfolios with and without family blockholders and apply equally- as well as value-weighted four-factor models to identify differences in stock market performance. Results show that family firms do not necessarily perform better than non-family firms in years of economic downturn. But our models suggest that they outperform non-family firms three years after the beginning of the world financial crisis and in and after the Euro crisis. This implies that family firms recover faster than their non-family counterparts. We follow that the financial preconditions of family firms, differing financial strategies during recessions and the controlling incentives and capacities that are rooted in the long-term orientation and risk aversion of family blockholders, as well as the country-specific corporate governance framework of Germany, explain these differences. The paper contributes to the ongoing academic exploration on family firm performance as well as crisis resilience of family firms and suggests practical implications for policymakers in countries with high levels of family ownership among firms.

Keywords: Family Firms, Family Ownership, Financial Crisis, Abnormal Returns, Stock Market Performance, Blockholders

JEL Classification: G01, G14, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Franzoi, Fabio and Mietzner, Mark, Sunshine after the Rain? The Stock Market Performance of Family Firms In and After Financial Crises (September 30, 2021). Risk Governance and Control: Financial Markets & Institutions, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3934211
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
A.-K Achleitner , R Braun , C Kaserer , S Jarchow , H Keppler , J Szewczyk
Börsennotierte Familienunternehmen in Deutschland -Bedeutung, Merkmale, Performance Listed family firms in Germany -Significance, characteristics, performance
Stiftung Familienunternehmen Posted: 2019
H Aldamen , K Duncan , S Kelly , R Mcnamara
Corporate governance and family firm performance during the Global Financial Crisis
Accounting and Finance , volume 60 , issue 2 , p. 1673 - 1701 Posted: 2020
B Amann , J Jaussaud
Family and non-family business resilience in an economic downturn
Asia Pacific Business Review , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 203 - 223 Posted: 2012
S Amato , R Basco , S G Ansón , N Lattanzi
Family-managed firms and employment growth during an economic downturn: Does their location matter?
Baltic Journal of Management , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 607 - 630 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
526
RANK
416,013
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies