Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Transactions in Hard-to-Value Stocks

Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2021-03-16

Charles A. Dice Center Working Paper No. 2021-16

Review of Corporate Finance Studies, forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2021 Last revised: 29 Nov 2021

Itzhak Ben-David

National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Finance

Byungwook Kim

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

Hala Moussawi

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Darren T. Roulstone

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Date Written: September 29, 2021

Abstract

Hard-to-value stocks provide opportunities for managers to exploit their informational advantage through trading on their firms' and their own personal accounts. In contrast to the prediction that such transactions reflect private information about future events, they are contrarian and heavily depend on past returns. Corporate transactions in hard-to-value stocks outperform those in easy-to-value stocks in the early part of our sample, but this difference disappears after 2002, coinciding with a general decline in the profitability of stock market anomalies. Our evidence is consistent with managers' perception of mispricing, rather than private information, being a key motivator of their transactions.

Keywords: insiders, repurchases, seasoned equity offerings, private information, mispricing

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G23, G32

Suggested Citation:

Ben-David, Itzhak and Kim, Byungwook and Moussawi, Hala and Roulstone, Darren T., Corporate Transactions in Hard-to-Value Stocks (September 29, 2021). Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2021-03-16, Charles A. Dice Center Working Paper No. 2021-16, Review of Corporate Finance Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3935973
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Analyst , volume 1
Amihud ratio 888
Htv Low , Htv High , S D Mean , S D Mean , S D Mean , Irisk
Analyst , volume 77
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
346
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,778
RANK
198,235
1 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University, Fisher College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies