Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Law vs. Accounting Firms: Competing Over Three Decades of Change

Posted: 11 Oct 2021

Stan Veliotis

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Danielle Green

Fordham University

Date Written: October 4, 2021

Abstract

This article takes advantage of a novel data set covering three decades to investigate the competition in the U.S. market for tax services between large law firm tax departments and their competitor, large accounting firms. The article first details the relevant provisions of three regulatory changes and how they were expected to affect these firms’ tax practices: the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), Financial Interpretation No. 48, and the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. The article then provides detailed descriptive data and analyses. In summary, the law firms have modestly increased their tax practices over the three decades but not as much as the accounting firms. The accounting firms had a lull shortly after SOX but then began to see their tax work steadily and annually increase over the last fifteen years. Higgins Green & Veliotis, Tax Notes Federal Vol. 173 (Oct. 4, 2021): 13-33.

Keywords: FIN 48, law practice, Sarbanes Oxley Act, tax services, TCJA

JEL Classification: J44, K20, M00, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Veliotis, Stanley and Green, Danielle, Law vs. Accounting Firms: Competing Over Three Decades of Change (October 4, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3935786
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
288
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies