Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Financial Regulation of Italian SPACs

in Alternative Acquisition Models and Financial Innovation: SPACs in Europe, and the Italian Legal Framework, Daniele D’Alvia, Ettore Maria Lombardi & Yochanan Shachmurove (eds.), 2023, 36-58.

Bocconi Legal Studies Research Paper No. 3935927

25 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2021 Last revised: 25 Oct 2023

Filippo Annunziata

Bocconi University - Department of Law; European Banking Institute; Ca Foscari University of Venice; Bocconi University - Baffi Carefin Centre; Frankfurt School of Finance & Management; EUSFIL Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence

Maria Lucia Passador

Bocconi University - Department of Law; Stanford University - Transatlantic Technology Law Forum (TTLF) Fellow; European Banking Institute; Harvard University - Harvard Law School

Anna Chiara Chisari

Bocconi University

Date Written: July 31, 2021

Abstract

SPACs have enjoyed, at least for some time, a fair degree of success in the Italian market. As in other jurisdictions, the relationship between the SPAC structure and financial market legislation is rather intricate: some areas of the financial regulation are potentially applicable to SPACs, while others are not. In some instances, SPACs simply fall outside the scope of certain areas of the financial and capital markets legislation; in other instances, they benefit from specific exemptions from certain provisions; and finally, they may be entirely subject to certain types of regulation. In particular, it is worth considering the following areas: (i) the relationship between SPACs and the regulation of undertakings for collective investment, which arises, in Italy, from the implementation of the AIFM Directive; (ii) the relationship between SPACs and the prospectus regulation; (iii) the regulation of trading platforms and SPACs, with particular attention to the AIM experience; (iv) the regulation of corporate governance of listed companies and SPACs; (v) the peculiarities of SPACs vis-à-vis other similar regulated vehicles (including private equity funds, club-deals, family offices, etc.).

For each of these topics, this chapter will discuss how, and to what extent, SPACs are ultimately subject to the related relevant provision, or are excluded from it, and how they have actually developed their "regulatory" strategies in approaching the Italian market.

Subsequently, this study will perform a quantitative analysis of Italian SPACs from January 2010 to December 2020, drawing some considerations and comparing their key characteristics with those of US SPACs.

Keywords: SPACs, blank check companies, IPO market, private equity, business combination

JEL Classification: F30, G12, G14, G15, G24, G30, G32, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Annunziata, Filippo and Annunziata, Filippo and Passador, Maria Lucia and Chisari, Anna Chiara, The Financial Regulation of Italian SPACs (July 31, 2021). in Alternative Acquisition Models and Financial Innovation: SPACs in Europe, and the Italian Legal Framework, Daniele D’Alvia, Ettore Maria Lombardi & Yochanan Shachmurove (eds.), 2023, 36-58., Bocconi Legal Studies Research Paper No. 3935927, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3935927
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Jessica Cf , Angela Bai , Miles Ma , Zheng
Reaching for Yield in the Going-Public Market: Evidence from SPACs Posted: 2021-01-01
Minmo Gahng , Jay R Ritter , Donghang Zhang
Posted: 2021-01-29
Minmo Gahng , Jay R Ritter , Donghang Zhang , Spacs
Posted: 2021-01-29
D Michael , Michael Klausner , Emily Ohlrogge , A Ruan , Sober
SPACs , volume 559 Posted: 2020-10-28
Load more
1 Citations
Maria Lucia Passador
Finding an Alternative to IPOs: SPACs and Direct Listing
in Research Handbook on Global Capital Markets Law, Iain MacNeil and Iris H-Y Chiu (eds.), Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd, 2023, 94-106 · 11 Pages · Posted: 28 Mar 2022 · Last revised: 20 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 546
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
409
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,400
RANK
164,283
1 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bocconi University Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies