Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Complexity in Disclosure

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

66 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2021 Last revised: 4 Aug 2023

Cyrus Aghamolla

Rice University

Kevin Smith

Stanford University Graduate School of Business

Date Written: September 19, 2022

Abstract

Extensive evidence suggests that managers strategically choose the complexity of their descriptive disclosures. However, their motives in doing so appear mixed, as complex disclosures are used to obfuscate in some cases and as a means of informative communication in others. Building on these observations, we first identify a novel stylized fact: disclosure complexity is non-monotonic in firm performance. We then develop a model of disclosure complexity that incorporates the dual roles of complexity and can explain this stylized fact. In the model, a manager discloses to investors of heterogeneous sophistication and can adjust the complexity of the disclosure to either provide more precise information or to obfuscate. In equilibrium, the manager issues a complex disclosure upon observing both highly positive and negative news. The market may therefore react more positively to complex information releases than to simple releases, which is at odds with the conventional wisdom that negative news is more often complexified.

Keywords: Financial reporting complexity, disclosure, complexity, obfuscation, disclosure informativeness, sophisticated investors, MD&A

JEL Classification: C72, D82, D83, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Aghamolla, Cyrus and Smith, Kevin, Strategic Complexity in Disclosure (September 19, 2022). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3936805 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3936805
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
V V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous information flows and the clustering of announcements
The American Economic Review , volume 101 , p. 2955 - 2979 Posted: 2011
C Aghamolla , C Corona , R Zheng
No reliance on guidance: countersignaling in management forecasts
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 52 , p. 207 - 245 Posted: 2021
E Avdis , S Banerjee
Clear and liquid: The interaction of firm disclosure and trader competition Posted: 2019
S Banerjee , B Breon-Drish
Dynamics of Research and Strategic Trading
The Review of Financial Studies Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
733
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,338
RANK
79,770
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies