Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Common Ownership, Executive Compensation, and Product Market Competition

58 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2021 Last revised: 4 Aug 2023

Matthew J. Bloomfield

The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania

Henry L. Friedman

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Anderson School of Management

Hwa Young Kim

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology

Date Written: August 3, 2023

Abstract

The negative effects of common ownership on competition have received significant attention, but many proposed mechanisms for institutional investor influence seem implausible. We develop and test an analytical model of optimal compensation in an oligopoly with common ownership, focusing on revenue-based pay as a plausible channel through which institutional investors might influence competition. Our model implies a negative effect of common ownership on firms' use of revenue-based pay. Using both associative analyses and an event study difference-in-differences design based on plausibly exogenous institutional mergers, we find no evidence of a negative relation between common ownership and the use of revenue-based pay, except in an economically small subsample of extremely concentrated owners. Results involving relative performance incentives are similar. Collectively, our results provide no support for the notion that cross-owning block-holders in general influence compensation contracts in order to soften executives' incentives to compete aggressively.

Keywords: Common ownership, competition, executive compensation, strategic delegation

JEL Classification: D43, G30, L13, M12, M40, M52

Suggested Citation:

Bloomfield, Matthew J. and Friedman, Henry L. and Kim, Hwa Young, Common Ownership, Executive Compensation, and Product Market Competition (August 3, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3936918 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3936918
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Executive compensation, strategic competition, and relative performance evaluation: Theory and evidence
The Journal of Finance , volume 54 , issue 6 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999-12
M Antón , F Ederer , M Giné , M Schmalz
Common ownership, competition, and top management incentives
Journal of Political Economy , volume 131 , issue 5 , p. 1294 - 1355 Posted: 2023
J Azar , S Raina , M C Schmalz
Ultimate ownership and bank competition
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2016
J Azar , M C Schmalz , I Tecu
Anticompetitive effects of common ownership
The Journal of Finance , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 1513 - 1565 Posted: 2018-08
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,031
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,417
RANK
50,177
7 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies