Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How do MNEs and Domestic Firms Respond Locally to a Global Demand Shock? Evidence from a Pandemic

Management Science (Preprint Version, Forthcoming)

55 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2021 Last revised: 30 Nov 2021

Arzi Adbi

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN); National University of Singapore (NUS)

Chirantan Chatterjee

University of Sussex Business School; University of Sussex Business School

Anant Mishra

VinUniversity - College of Business & Management

Date Written: September 29, 2021

Abstract

Global shocks bring unanticipated changes in the business environment of foreign multinational enterprises (MNEs) and rival domestic firms. We examine whether there is a difference between how MNEs and domestic firms react in heterogeneous local or subnational markets to a global demand shock. Leveraging the 2009-10 H1N1 influenza pandemic as a source of exogenous variation in global demand for influenza vaccines, we investigate the role of subnational heterogeneity in economic resources, industry infrastructure, and political alignment within an emerging economy on the behavior of incumbent MNEs and rival domestic firms. We find that following the pandemic, MNE market share in the influenza vaccine market relative to the non-influenza vaccine markets declines more in regions with lower government health spending per capita, and also in regions unaligned with the federal government. Additional analyses suggest that these changes in market share are not caused by a reduction in MNE revenues. Rather, they are caused by domestic firms that were already present in non-influenza vaccine markets diversifying by entering the highly-related influenza vaccine market. Finally, a granular examination of the differential responses reveals that such responses are not related to pre-shock differences in regional coverage of MNEs and domestic firms. This study contributes to the extant literature by suggesting that the direct costs, or opportunity costs, of new market and region entry are relatively greater for MNEs than for domestic firms, particularly in regions that have inadequate health infrastructure and are politically not aligned.

Keywords: competition, subnational heterogeneity, domestic firms, multinational enterprises, pandemic

JEL Classification: I1, I12, I15, M

Suggested Citation:

Adbi, Arzi and Chatterjee, Chirantan and Mishra, Anant, How do MNEs and Domestic Firms Respond Locally to a Global Demand Shock? Evidence from a Pandemic (September 29, 2021). Management Science (Preprint Version, Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3936089 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3936089
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
A Abadie , A Diamond , J Hainmueller
Synthetic control methods for comparative case studies: Estimating the effect of California's Tobacco Control Program
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 105 , issue 490 , p. 493 - 505 Posted: 2010
A Abadie , A Diamond , J Hainmueller
Comparative politics and the synthetic control method
American Journal of Political Science , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 495 - 510 Posted: 2015
D Acemoglu , J Linn
Market size in innovation: Theory and evidence from the pharmaceutical industry
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 119 , issue 3 , p. 1049 - 1090 Posted: 2004
A Adbi , C Chatterjee , M Drev , A Mishra
When the big one came: A natural experiment on demand shock and market structure in India's influenza vaccine markets , volume 28 , p. 810 - 832 Posted: 2019
Load more
8 Citations
Sugata Marjit , Gouranga Das
Managing Pandemic and Correcting Development Fundamentals
, p. 29 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Yongkui Liu , Yuangang Zheng , Hongguang Bo , Kai Ding , Felix T.S. Chan
Enterprises cooperation and government supervision strategies under the impact of COVID-19
Computers & Industrial Engineering , volume 185 , p. 109694 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Mayank Aggarwal , Anindya S. Chakrabarti , Chirantan Chatterjee
Movies, Stigma and Choice: Evidence from the Pharmaceutical Industry
42 Pages · Posted: 23 Mar 2020 · Last revised: 7 Jan 2022 · Downloads: 370
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Shreekanth Mahendiran , Chirantan Chatterjee , Anthony J. Dukes , D. Daniel Sokol
When the Gloves Come Off: Signaling Toughness through Private Trademark Litigation
USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB, No. Forthcoming, USC CLASS Research Paper No. CLASS22-9, USC Law Legal Studies Paper No. 22-9 · 51 Pages · Posted: 6 Apr 2021 · Last revised: 1 Aug 2024 · Downloads: 364
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
357
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,916
RANK
191,550
8 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies