Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lucian Bebchuk and the Study of Corporate Governance

Forthcoming, University of Chicago Law Review, Vol. 88, No. 7, 2021

26 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2021

Kobi Kastiel

Tel Aviv University - Buchmann Faculty of Law; Harvard Law School, Program on Corporate Governance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: October 4, 2021

Abstract

Prepared for an upcoming issue of The University of Chicago Law Review on the most-cited legal scholars, this Essay discusses Lucian Bebchuk’s fundamental contributions to the field of corporate governance, as well as his major impact on scholarship, practice, and policy. Bebchuk is the author of more than one hundred corporate law and finance articles, and is ranked by SSRN as the most-cited corporate law scholar (as well as one of the most-cited among all law professors). However, this ranking only tells part of the story; this Essay seeks to provide a fuller picture.

The first part of the Essay focuses on Bebchuk’s research contributions. I begin by surveying the broad range of corporate governance areas to which Bebchuk has made major contributions. I then identify the aspects of Bebchuk’s research that have made it so consequential, including Bebchuk’s tools and modes of analysis and some overarching themes and approaches shared by his work in disparate areas.

The second part of the Essay focuses on Bebchuk’s impact. I discuss three ways in which Bebchuk’s work has been impactful—by shaping and influencing subsequent academic research, as well as discourse among practitioners and policymakers; through his mentorship of many corporate governance scholars; and by having substantial influence on the evolution of policy and practices in the corporate field.

Keywords: Corporate governance, managers, shareholders, directors, boards, controlling shareholders, shareholder rights, management accountability, entrenchment, executive compensation, state competition, contractual freedom, corporate charters, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder activism, short

JEL Classification: D20, G3, K22, M10, M52

Suggested Citation:

Kastiel, Kobi, Lucian Bebchuk and the Study of Corporate Governance (October 4, 2021). Forthcoming, University of Chicago Law Review, Vol. 88, No. 7, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3936085
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Lucian A Bebchuk
How to Fix Bankers' Pay
DAEDALUS , volume 139 Posted: 2010
See Generally , Lucian A Bebchuk
Yaniv Grinstein & Urs Peyer, Lucky CEOs and Lucky Directors, 65
J. FIN Posted: 2010
See Generally , Lucian A Bebchuk
The Myth That Insulating Boards Serves Long-Term Value Posted: 2013
Lucian A Bebchuk , Alon Brav , Wei Jiang
The Long-Term Effects of Hedge Fund Activism
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
567
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,409
RANK
110,945
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies