Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relative Performance Evaluation and Strategic Peer-Harming Disclosures

91 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2021 Last revised: 26 Mar 2024

Matthew J. Bloomfield

The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania

Mirko Stanislav Heinle

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Oscar Timmermans

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

Date Written: March 23, 2024

Abstract

Many firms use relative stock performance to evaluate and incentivize their CEOs. We document that such firms routinely disclose information that harms peers’ stock prices, and sometimes explicitly mention the harmed peers, by name, in these disclosures. Consistent with deliberate sabotage, peer-harming disclosures appear to be aimed at peers whose stock price depressions are most likely to benefit the disclosing firms’ CEOs. The pricing effect of these disclosures does not reverse, suggesting that the disclosures contain legitimate information regarding peers’ prospects. In sum, our results suggest that relative performance evaluation in CEO pay motivates CEOs to internalize the externalities of their disclosures, and strategically disclose information that harms peers’ stock prices, in order to improve their firms’ relative standing within their peer group.

Keywords: Relative Performance Evaluation, Sabotage, Voluntary Disclosure, Stock Returns

JEL Classification: G12, G14, J33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bloomfield, Matthew J. and Heinle, Mirko Stanislav and Timmermans, Oscar, Relative Performance Evaluation and Strategic Peer-Harming Disclosures (March 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3936860 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3936860
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
R Aggarwal , A Samwick
Executive compensation, strategic competition, and relative performance evaluation: Theory and evidence
The Journal of Finance , volume 54 , issue 6 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
D Aobdia , L Cheng
Unionization, product market competition, and strategic disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 65 , issue 2-3 , p. 331 - 357 Posted: 2018
K Balakrishnan , M B Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Shaping liquidity: On the causal effects of voluntary disclosure
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 2237 - 2278 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
649
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,375
RANK
93,293
2 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies