Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Accounting Research on Corporate Investment: A Discussion of The Impact of IP Box Regimes on the M&A Market by Bradley, Ruf, and Robinson

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

8 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Rebecca Lester

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Date Written: October 5, 2021

Abstract

In The Impact of IP Box Regimes on the M&A Market, Bradley, Robinson, and Ruf (2021) study whether and to what extent tax incentives for intellectual property affect corporate M&A investment activity. The paper finds that a 1.0 percentage point tax benefit leads to a 1.2% increase in M&A activity in a country after the implementation of an Intellectual Property (IP) Box tax regime. Results vary based on country-specific IP Box requirements, as well as firm-specific characteristics such as patent ownership and acquirer nationality. My discussion offers more cautious interpretations of the empirical results related to statutory country-specific requirements of these regimes and raises concerns about the type and timing of firm responses. More generally, I outline how this paper and other work by tax researchers in Accounting contributes to the broader literature studying the relation between corporate tax policies and investment activity.

Keywords: IP box; Innovation box; Investment; Tax

JEL Classification: F23, G38, H25, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Lester, Rebecca, Tax Accounting Research on Corporate Investment: A Discussion of The Impact of IP Box Regimes on the M&A Market by Bradley, Ruf, and Robinson (October 5, 2021). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3936809 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3936809
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,099
RANK
403,165
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies