Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative Dissuade the Increasing Electoral Violence in sub-Saharan Africa? Evidence from Nigeria’s Oil Producing Region

Journal of Global Responsibility,13(2), pp. 101-126 (2022).

34 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2021 Last revised: 31 Mar 2022

Joseph I. Uduji

University of Nigeria Enugu Campus

Elda N. Okolo-Obasi

University of Nigeria - Institute of Development Studies; Development Strategy Centre Nigeria

Simplice Asongu

African Governance and Development Institute

Date Written: October 7, 2021

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to critically examine the multinational oil companies’ (MOCs) corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives in Nigeria. Its special focus is to investigate the impact of the global memorandum of understanding (GMoU) on reducing incidents of electoral violence in the oil-producing communities.

Design/methodology/approach – This paper adopts a survey technique, aimed at gathering information from a representative sample of the population, as it is essentially cross-sectional, describing and interpreting the current situation. A total of 1200 households were sampled across the Niger Delta region of Nigeria.

Findings – The results from the use of a combined propensity score matching and logit model indicate that GMoU model made significant impact in deterring occurrences of electoral violence, when interventions on cluster development boards (CDBs) are designed to mitigate the intricate of political clashes in the region.

Practical implication – This implies that CSR interventions of MOCs play a vital role in reducing incidents of electoral violence in Nigeria’s oil producing region.

Social implication – Reducing the increasing electoral violence in the oil host communities, will in turn create an enabling environment for more extensive and responsible business of Multinational Corporation in sub-Saharan Africa.

Originality/value –This paper extends and contributes to the literature on CSR initiatives of multinational enterprises in developing countries and rationale for demands for social projects by host communities. It concludes that business has an obligation to help in solving problems of public concern.



Keywords: Electoral violence, corporate social responsibility, multinational oil companies, sub-Saharan Africa

Suggested Citation:

Uduji, Joseph I. and Okolo-Obasi, Elda N. and Okolo-Obasi, Elda N. and Asongu, Simplice, Does Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative Dissuade the Increasing Electoral Violence in sub-Saharan Africa? Evidence from Nigeria’s Oil Producing Region (October 7, 2021). Journal of Global Responsibility,13(2), pp. 101-126 (2022)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3937763 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3937763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
J O Adebayo
Fostering non-violent election in Africa through conflict sensitive reportage of elections
Africa Security Review , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 303 - 315 Posted: 2016
W Akpan
Between responsibility and rhetoric: Some consequences of CSR practice in Nigeria's oil province
Development Southern Africa , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 240 Posted: 2006
C Alfred , S Alihodzic
Global memorandum of understanding: An analysis of Shell Petroleum Development Companies Current Community Development Model in the Niger Delta
International Journal Innovative Social Science and Humanities , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 54 - 69 Posted: 2012
K Amaeshi , B Adi , C Ogbechie , O Amao
Corporate social responsibility in Nigeria: Western mimicry or indigenous influence
Journal of Corporate Citizenship , volume 24 , p. 83 - 99 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
470
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies