Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Narcissistic CEOs All That Bad?

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming

10 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2021

David F. Larcker

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Stanford University - Hoover Institution; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Charles A. O'Reilly

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Brian Tayan

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Anastasia A. Zakolyukina

City University of New York, Baruch College - Zicklin School of Business - Department of Economics and Finance

Date Written: October 7, 2021

Abstract

The role that a CEO’s personality plays in corporate outcomes is a topic of considerable interest, particularly the relation between narcissistic CEOs and performance. Common perception is that CEO narcissism is highly prevalent, and considerable research suggests that narcissism is associated with worse outcomes. The majority of studies, however, are based on “unobtrusive” methods that do not directly measure the CEO’s personality through a validated questionnaire but instead on indirect evidence thought to be indicative of narcissism.

In this Closer Look, we test some basic assumptions about the relation between narcissism and corporate outcomes using a sample of CEOs whose personality is formally assessed by long-time directors who know and have worked closely with that CEO. While most of the research into narcissism and outcomes is negative, we find unexpected associations.

We ask:
• Would the results of existing literature be replicated if CEOs were subject to a valid personality evaluation?
• What contribution does a CEO’s personality have to outcomes, and how does it manifest itself through strategy, risk, and culture?
• How much discussion does the board have about the personality of their CEO? What actions do they take when they identify personal tendencies that might be of concern?
• Are narcissists better at corporate “window dressing” than their less narcissistic peers?

Keywords: Corporate governance, CEO personality, CEO narcissism, Big Five personality, Five Factor Model, Narcissistic Personality Inventory, NPI, ESG, governance quality, compensation, pay equity, board of directors, survey, corporate governance research

Suggested Citation:

Larcker, David F. and O'Reilly, Charles A. and Tayan, Brian and Zakolyukina, Anastasia A., Are Narcissistic CEOs All That Bad? (October 7, 2021). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3937526
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,681
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,519
RANK
24,387
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies