Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Policy Uncertainty and Stock Liquidity: The Mitigating Effect of Information Disclosure.

60 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2021

Fengrong Wang

Center for Economic Reseach, Shandong University

William Mbanyele

Center for Economic Research, Shandong University

Linda Muchenje

Shandong University - Center for Economic Research

Date Written: July 22, 2021

Abstract

We examine the relationship between economic policy uncertainty, information disclosure and stock liquidity using a large sample of Chinese firms. We first establish that economic policy uncertainty leads to declining stock liquidity. Next, we provide evidence that managers respond to uncertainty shocks to their firm’s information environment by producing more information. Cross-sectional tests indicate that voluntary information disclosure increases more for firms with higher external information demand and with no implicit guarantees. Furthermore, we find that high information disclosure quality mitigates the negative impact of heightened economic policy uncertainty on stock liquidity. This impact is more pronounced for firms with poor information environments and private firms. Additionally, we provide further evidence using cumulative abnormal returns that in periods of high economic policy uncertainty, investors react more to management earnings announcements for firms with high information disclosure quality. Finally, we uncover that increased information disclosure quality improves financial analysts forecast precision more when policy uncertainty is high.

Keywords: China, Economic policy uncertainty, Information disclosure, Information asymmetry. Stock liquidity.

JEL Classification: D82, E61, G14, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Fengrong and Mbanyele, William and Muchenje, Linda, Economic Policy Uncertainty and Stock Liquidity: The Mitigating Effect of Information Disclosure. (July 22, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3939622 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3939622
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
R Albuquerque , Y Yrjo Koskinen , S Yang , C Zhang
Resiliency of Environmental and Social Stocks: An Analysis of the Exogenous COVID-19 Market Crash, The Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , p. 593 - 621 Posted: 2020
D Acemoglu , Johnson S Kermani , A
The value of connections in turbulent times: Evidence from the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 2 , p. 368 - 391 Posted: 2016
S Ali , B Liu , J J Su
Corporate governance and stock liquidity dimensions: Panel evidence from pure order-driven Australian market
International Review of Economics and Finance , volume 50 , p. 275 - 304 Posted: 2017
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
849
RANK
334,632
9 Citations
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies