Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility in the Time of COVID-19 Pandemic: An Exploratory Study of Developing Country Corporates

Gokarna, P., & Krishnamoorthy, B. (2021). Corporate social responsibility in the time of COVID-19 pandemic: An exploratory study of developing country corporates. Corporate Governance and Sustainability Review, 5(3), 73–80.

8 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2021

Poojaa Gokarna

Naree Monjee Institute of Management Studies

Bala Krishnamoorthy

SVKM's Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS) - School of Business Management

Date Written: May 19, 2021

Abstract

COVID-19 pandemic has long-lasting consequences on the health, economic and social life of a country (He & Harris, 2020). In a developing country like India, the socio-economic disruption has led to collaborative action between the central government and state government machinery together with the development sector to curb the impact caused by the virus. Academia substantiates the symbiotic relationship existing between the business and the society (McGuire, 1963; Carroll & Shabana, 2010). The corporates are contributing towards alleviating the pandemic situation through their corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities (Mahmud, Ding, & Hasan, 2021). This article provides insights into the CSR strategies adopted by corporates in India during the COVID-19 pandemic through exploratory research. The study is based on semi-structured interviews of 27 CSR managers involved in strategizing and implementation of CSR activities in their respective organizations. The results outline the commitment shown by corporates towards alleviating the consequence of the virus by multiple CSR strategies. Thus, this research furthers the understanding of CSR and forms a base for future research on COVID-19 and CSR.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, COVID-19 Pandemic, CSR Strategies, Mandatory CSR

JEL Classification: M14

Suggested Citation:

Gokarna, Poojaa and Krishnamoorthy, Bala, Corporate Social Responsibility in the Time of COVID-19 Pandemic: An Exploratory Study of Developing Country Corporates (May 19, 2021). Gokarna, P., & Krishnamoorthy, B. (2021). Corporate social responsibility in the time of COVID-19 pandemic: An exploratory study of developing country corporates. Corporate Governance and Sustainability Review, 5(3), 73–80., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3939676
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A Afsharipour , J Du Plessis , U Varottil , J Veldman
Corporate social responsibility and the corporate board: Assessing the Indian experiment
Globalisation of corporate social responsibility and its impact on corporate governance Posted: 2018
H Aguinis , I Villamor , K P Gabriel
Understanding employee responses to COVID-19: A behavioral corporate social responsibility perspective
Management Research , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 421 - 438 Posted: 2020
K Backman , H A Kyngäs
Challenges of the grounded theory approach to a novice researcher
Nursing & Health Sciences , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 147 - 153 Posted: 1999
V Bansode
COVID-19 in India -CSR Outlook for 2020-21 Posted: 2020-05-11
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
603
RANK
521,283
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies