Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Ownership Structure on the Financial Performance of Indian Corporate Sector

The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. 20, No. 2, April 2021, pp. 7-20

Posted: 8 Dec 2021

Ruchita Verma

Central University of Punjab

Dhanraj Sharma

Central University of Punjab

Priyanka .

Central University of Punjab, Bathinda

Date Written: October 11, 2021

Abstract

The aim of the study is to investigate the effect of ownership structure on the accounting-based performance of the Indian corporate sector. The study employs panel data regression for establishing an association between ownership and firm’s performance on a sample of 40 companies listed on the National Stock Exchange (NSE) for the period of seven years, i.e., 2013-14 to 2019-20. By using cross-sectional time series Feasible Generalized Least Squares (FGLS) regression, it is observed that foreign ownership and government ownership have a positive impact on the financial performance (ROA and ROCE), while directors’ ownership exerts a negative effect on ROA and ROCE. The study found a positive impact of liquidity ratio and a negative effect of the leverage ratio and firm size. The study did not find an association between institutional ownership and corporate ownership with financial performance. This study contributes to the existing financial literature and will benefit the shareholders and other stakeholders in better understanding the ownership structure and its implication on accounting-based financial performance. This study employs a range of ownership structure measures, instead of focusing on a single measure. Furthermore, different types of panel data regression techniques are used in the study.

Suggested Citation:

Verma, Ruchita and Sharma, Dhanraj and ., Priyanka, The Impact of Ownership Structure on the Financial Performance of Indian Corporate Sector (October 11, 2021). The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. 20, No. 2, April 2021, pp. 7-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3940281
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
356
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies