Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance in Banking: A Systematic Literature Review

The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. 20, No. 2, April 2021, pp. 21-48

Posted: 8 Dec 2021

Ranajee .

IFHE University

Saumita Roy

IFHE University

Sreya Roy Chowdhury

IFHE University

Prashant Dixit

IFHE University

Date Written: October 11, 2021

Abstract

Banking is a responsible business based on trust and fairness. Corporate governance in banking institutions becomes crucial in navigating through the uncertain world we live in. This topic has piqued the attention of a wide variety of scholars around the world, and it has gained momentum in recent years. The aim of this study is to identify the key contributors, key areas, current trends, and potential research directions. The paper uses a systematic literature review methodology, as well as bibliometric and content analysis, to examine 311 studies from the Scopus database. Citations and PageRank are used to classify the most influential papers as well as the most influential contributors. A co-citation network was developed to see the conceptual framework of this research area. The study identifies research discrepancies, and seven actionable research paths are proposed for the future.

Suggested Citation:

., Ranajee and Roy, Saumita and Chowdhury, Sreya Roy and Dixit, Prashant, Corporate Governance in Banking: A Systematic Literature Review (October 11, 2021). The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. 20, No. 2, April 2021, pp. 21-48, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3940306
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
225
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies