Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enhancing Financial Reporting Quality through Corporate Ethics Commitment

Reference to this paper should be referred to as follows: Nasir, N.A.M; Hashim, H.A; Nawi, N.C; Yusoff, M.N.H; Aluwi, N.A.M. (2021). Enhancing Financial Reporting Quality through Corporate Ethics Commitment, Acc. Fin. Review, 6(2), 84– 94. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2021.6.2(2)

11 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2021

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Noorul Azwin Md Nasir

Faculty of Entrepreneurship and Business, Universiti Malaysia Kelantan, Malaysia

Hafiza Aishah Hashim

Universiti Malaysia Terengganu (UMT)

Noorshella Che Nawi

Faculty of Entrepreneurship and Business, Universiti Malaysia Kelantan, Malaysia

Mohd Nor Hakimin Yusoff

Faculty of Entrepreneurship and Business, Universiti Malaysia Kelantan, Malaysia

Nur Athirah Mohd Aluwi

Faculty of Entrepreneurship and Business, Universiti Malaysia Kelantan, Malaysia

Date Written: September 30, 2021

Abstract

Objective - A rising number of cases involving ethical misconduct within firms have of late received considerable attention in Malaysia. Despite the country's declaring having a strong corporate governance policy, strengthened through the Code of Ethics for Company Directors and Malaysia Code of Corporate Governance, unethical practices, and lack of integrity within firms remain an issue. This paper aims to review the current implementation of corporate ethical conducts among corporate governance practitioners as well as factors that influence corporate ethics commitment in a firm.

Methodology/Technique - This paper is developed from extensive readings of previous literature on corporate governance practices and their effect on the quality of financial reports.

Findings - This paper discloses collective approaches of corporate ethics practiced in Malaysian firms and how the implementation has enhanced the firms' overall financial reporting quality. It demonstrates current issues and the importance of corporate ethics commitment to enhance financial reporting quality. Firms that emphasize ethical commitments, reduce the risk of financial statement fraud and firms will naturally gain trust from their stakeholders.

Novelty - This paper stresses the importance of sound ethical conduct above other factors that influence the financial reporting quality of firms in Malaysia. This paper is the result of extensive research on corporate ethics commitment and financial reporting quality.

Type of Paper - Review.

Keywords: Corporate Ethics; Corporate Governance; Financial Reporting Quality

JEL Classification: G34, M41.

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Nasir, Noorul Azwin Md and Hashim, Hafiza and Nawi, Noorshella Che and Yusoff, Mohd Nor Hakimin and Aluwi, Nur Athirah Mohd, Enhancing Financial Reporting Quality through Corporate Ethics Commitment (September 30, 2021). Reference to this paper should be referred to as follows: Nasir, N.A.M; Hashim, H.A; Nawi, N.C; Yusoff, M.N.H; Aluwi, N.A.M. (2021). Enhancing Financial Reporting Quality through Corporate Ethics Commitment, Acc. Fin. Review, 6(2), 84– 94. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2021.6.2(2), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3940866
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
S N Abdullah , N M &nasir
Accrual management and the independence of the boards of directors and audit committees
International Journal of Economics , volume 12 , issue 1 Posted: 2004
W R W Abdullah , E N S Maruhun , M A Tarmizi , L A &rahman
Mitigating earnings management: adoption of IFRS and corporate governance practices in Malaysia
International Journal of Academic Research in Business and Social Sciences , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 760 - 772 Posted: 2018
A F Z Abidin , H A Hashim , A M &ariff
Ethical Commitments and Financial Performance: Evidence from Publicly Listed Companies in Malaysia
Asian Academy of Management Journal , volume 22 , issue 2 Posted: 2017
P Alleyne
The influence of organisational commitment and corporate ethical values on non-public accountants' whistle-blowing intentions in Barbados
Journal of Applied Accounting Research Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
284
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,163
RANK
245,414
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies