Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance: Literature Review on Agency Costs and Pieces of Evidence on Different Perspectives

The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. 20, No. 2, April 2021, pp. 49-73

Posted: 10 Dec 2021

Shubhi Agarwal

Chaudhary Charan Singh University

Archna Singh

Meerut College, Meerut

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 11, 2021

Abstract

This paper intends to review different pieces of literature that try to establish a link between the tools of corporate governance and agency costs. Tools of corporate governance play a key role in reducing agency costs. The paper focuses on reviewing the literature on ownership structure, firm structure, board structure, and remuneration structure extensively. The paper reviews many aspects of ownership structure as well as firm structure, i.e., institutional ownership, non-institutional ownership, managerial ownership, firm age, and firm size. The works of literature have cited many way outs as strong institutional ownership, managerial ownership, board size, frequency of board meetings, board independence, board composition, board ownership, remuneration structure, and firm age as well as size can be beneficial in eliminating agency costs. The paper uses a descriptive research design. A lottery system of random sampling is used while selecting different kinds of literature reviews of ownership as well as remuneration structure. The paper takes the 2004-2019 time period for reviewing literature. The period is selected based on convenience sampling. The extensive review of literature will enlighten the research scholars as well as academicians in understanding the problem of agency and how tools of corporate governance will help in reducing agency costs.

Suggested Citation:

Agarwal, Shubhi and Singh, Archna, Corporate Governance: Literature Review on Agency Costs and Pieces of Evidence on Different Perspectives (October 11, 2021). The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. 20, No. 2, April 2021, pp. 49-73, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3940316
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
396
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies