Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Relevance of Corporate Voluntary Carbon Disclosure: Evidence from the United States and Bric Countries

Jiang, Y., Luo, L., Xu, J., & Shao, X. (2021). The value relevance of corporate voluntary carbon disclosure: Evidence from the United States and BRIC countries. Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcae.2021.100279.

46 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2021

Yan Jiang

Nanjing University of Finance and Economics

Le Luo

Macquarie University

Jianfeng Xu

Nanjing University of Finance and Economics

XiaoRui Shao

Nanjing University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: October 13, 2021

Abstract

Our study focuses on the value relevance of corporate voluntary carbon disclosure. Our sample
includes firms from the United States (listed in the S&P 500) and firms from Brazil, Russia,
India, and China that are targeted by the CDP. We examine whether the capital market
rewards firms’ voluntary carbon disclosure. Voluntary carbon disclosure is measured as
firms’ propensity to voluntarily disclose carbon information and the comprehensiveness
and quality of their disclosure.Wefind that firms with greater carbon disclosure have higher
firm value. Furthermore, the positive association between firm value and voluntary carbon
disclosure is stronger in developing countries.Wealso find that large emitters with sufficient
carbon disclosure experience a less negative valuation than firms with inadequate carbon
disclosure. Furthermore, a subcomponent analysis suggests that the disclosure of specific
types of climate risk and opportunity is rewarded by investors and can mitigate the valuation
penalty of carbon emissions. These results have important implications for companies, investors,
and regulators. Our analyses enhance understanding of the consequences of voluntary
carbon reporting, which enriches the reporting of current financial information.

Keywords: Carbon disclosure, Carbon emission, Firm value, Value relevance, Developing country, Climate risk and opportunity

JEL Classification: Q51,G14

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Yan and Luo, Le and Xu, Jianfeng and Shao, XiaoRui, The Value Relevance of Corporate Voluntary Carbon Disclosure: Evidence from the United States and Bric Countries (October 13, 2021). Jiang, Y., Luo, L., Xu, J., & Shao, X. (2021). The value relevance of corporate voluntary carbon disclosure: Evidence from the United States and BRIC countries. Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcae.2021.100279., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3941862
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
A S Abu Bakar , R Ameer
Readability of corporate social responsibility communication in Malaysia. Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 18 , p. 50 - 60 Posted: 2011
Gri Acca
High-impact sectors: The challenge of reporting on climate change. ACCA and The Global Reporting Initiative Posted: 2009
W Aerts , D Cormier
Media legitimacy and corporate environmental communication. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 34 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2009
W Aerts , D Cormier , M Magnan
Corporate environmental disclosure, financial markets and the media: An international perspective
Ecological Economics , volume 64 , p. 643 - 659 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,023
RANK
304,916
5 Citations
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies