Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental Accounting Disclosure Practices in Bangladesh and Its Impact on Investor Decisions

36 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Pizus Biswas

University of Dhaka - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Tasnia Rahman

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Adhora Sudha

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 1, 2019

Abstract

The focus of this study is to identify the environmental disclosures made by Bangladeshi companies and analyze the overall disclosure practice of the countries’ industries. And also collect the investor’s feedback on whether or not environmental disclosure information is making a difference in their decision making process and their opinion about the company. For conducting the research, the study has used 5 sectors- Engineering, Pharmaceuticals, Food, Textile and Fuel and Power along with 10 companies with each stratum.This study has used the standard environmental disclosure index developed by prior researchers to show the volume of the selected companies’ environmental disclosures in the annual reports. To show the impact of the environmental disclosures on the investors’ decision, the study has conducted a survey among the investors. The study shows evidence that reinforces the fact that Bangladeshi companies are disclosing less environmental information than an ideal company should. Also there are lack of regulation and interest in disclosing proper information. Although by conducting a survey it was seen that majority of investors and probable investors are interested in these information and are
supportive of eco-friendly companies

Keywords: : Environmental Accounting, Investor’s Decision, Bangladeshi Industries, Content Analysis, Annual Reports

JEL Classification: M,C

Suggested Citation:

Biswas, Pizus and Rahman, Tasnia and Sudha, Adhora, Environmental Accounting Disclosure Practices in Bangladesh and Its Impact on Investor Decisions (November 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3941040 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3941040
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
K Ahmed , D Nicholls
The Impact of Non-financial Company Characteristics on Mandatory Compliance in Developing Countries: The Case of Bangladesh
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 77 Posted: 1994
M G Ayuso , Carlos L
Environmental disclosure in Spain: Corporate characteristics and media exposure
Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 115 , p. 184 - 214 Posted: 2003
N Beckerman
Sustainable development: is it a useful concept
Environmental Values , volume 3 , p. 191 - 209 Posted: 1994
J S Choi
An evaluation of the voluntary corporate environmental disclosures a Korean Evidence
Social and Environmental Accounting , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 2 - 7 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
620
RANK
472,791
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies