Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
AI certification: advancing ethical practice by reducing information asymmetries

IEEE Transactions on Technology and Society, https://doi.org/10.1109/TTS.2021.3077595

LawAI Working Paper No. 5-2021

27 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2021 Last revised: 10 May 2024

Peter Cihon

Center for the Governance of AI, Future of Humanity Institute, University of Oxford

Moritz J. Kleinaltenkamp

Hertie School - Centre for Digital Governance

Jonas Schuett

Centre for the Governance of AI; Goethe University Frankfurt; Institute for Law & AI

Seth Baum

Global Catastrophic Risk Institute

Date Written: May 10, 2021

Abstract

As artificial intelligence (AI) systems are increasingly deployed, principles for ethical AI are also proliferating. Certification offers a method to both incentivize adoption of these principles and substantiate that they have been implemented in practice. This paper draws from management literature on certification and reviews current AI certification programs and proposals. Successful programs rely on both emerging technical methods and specific design considerations. In order to avoid two common failures of certification, program designs should ensure that the symbol of the certification is substantially implemented in practice and that the program achieves its stated goals. The review indicates that the field currently focuses on self-certification and third-party certification of systems, individuals, and organizations—to the exclusion of process management certifications. Additionally, the paper considers prospects for future AI certification programs. Ongoing changes in AI technology suggest that AI certification regimes should be designed to emphasize governance criteria of enduring value, such as ethics training for AI developers, and to adjust technical criteria as the technology changes. Overall, certification can play a valuable mix in the portfolio of AI governance tools.

Keywords: certification, artificial intelligence, ethics, standards organizations, government, couplings, environmental management

JEL Classification: M48

Suggested Citation:

Cihon, Peter and Kleinaltenkamp, Moritz J. and Schuett, Jonas and Baum, Seth, AI certification: advancing ethical practice by reducing information asymmetries (May 10, 2021). IEEE Transactions on Technology and Society, https://doi.org/10.1109/TTS.2021.3077595, LawAI Working Paper No. 5-2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3941300
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
A Jobin , M Ienca , E Vayena
The global landscape of AI ethics guidelines
Nature Machine Intelligence , volume 1 , p. 389 - 399 Posted: 2019
J Fjeld , N Achten , H Hilligoss , A C Nagy , M Srikumar
Principled artificial intelligence: Mapping consensus in ethical and rights-based approaches to principles for AI Posted: 2020
J Morley , L Floridi , L Kinsey , A Elhalal
From what to how: An initial review of publicly available AI ethics tools, methods and research to translate principles into practices
Sci. Eng. Ethics Posted: 2019
B Mittelstadt
Principles alone cannot guarantee ethical AI
Nature Machine Intelligence , volume 1 , p. 501 - 507 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,363
RANK
327,219
6 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies