Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Outside CEOs onto Bank Boards: The Drivers and Consequences of their Appointment

61 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2021

Usman Gilani

University of Leeds – Division of Accounting and Finance

Kevin Keasey

University of Leeds - Division of Accounting and Finance

Francesco Vallascas

Durham University

Date Written: October 12, 2021

Abstract

Outside CEOs from non-financial firms match with boards of lending-oriented banks and are sought for their networks. They do not improve board advising and monitoring but their appointment results in lending expansion, increased bank CEO compensation, and more bank debt for their firms. The matching between outside CEOs of financial firms and bank boards is instead influenced by their expertise and improves board effectiveness. Ultimately, the lending business of banks distorts the incentives of outside CEOs from non-financial firms resulting in them not acting as truly independent directors, whereas CEOs from financial firms are valuable additions to bank boards.

Keywords: Bank Boards, Outside CEOs, Business Models

JEL Classification: G21, G30

Suggested Citation:

Gilani, Usman Javed and Keasey, Kevin and Vallascas, Francesco, Outside CEOs onto Bank Boards: The Drivers and Consequences of their Appointment (October 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3941143 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3941143
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
R B Adams , H Mehran
Bank board structure and performance: Evidence for large bank holding companies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 243 - 267 Posted: 2012
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Executive compensation, strategic competition, and relative performance evaluation: Theory and evidence
The Journal of Finance , volume 54 , issue 6 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
D Anginer , A Demirguc-Kunt , H Huizinga , K Ma
Corporate governance of banks and financial stability
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 130 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 346 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
919
RANK
627,127
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies