Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $6.25
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Option Greeks, Insider Trading, and the Heinz Acquisition

Darden Case No. UVA-F-1978

11 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2021 Last revised: 18 Feb 2022

Davide Tomio

Texas A&M University - Department of Finance

Patrick Augustin

McGill University; McGill University, Desautels Faculty of Management

Menachem Brenner

New York University (NYU) - Department of Finance

Marti G. Subrahmanyam

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business; NYU Shanghai

Abstract

Just before Warren Buffett's company, Berkshire Hathaway Inc, acquired H. J. Heinz Company on February 14, 2013, rumors had been circulating that the Omaha investing oracle had set eyes on the condiment giant. By the time the official acquisition was announced, questions had arisen about some unusual trading activity in financial markets. A very profitable trade was made on the option market just a few days before the announcement: a $90,000 trade that resulted in profits of around $1.8 million. The case puts students in the shoes of a fictional SEC analyst in charge of investigating rumors of insider trading in the context of Berkshire Hathaway's acquisition of Heinz. Which market would an informed investor with limited capital choose? Which option contract would the insider choose, and why? The case allows the instructor to introduce option “Greeks,” measures of sensitivity of option contracts to underlying risk factors. The Greeks are presented in an intuitive fashion, and the analysis provides an applied, true-to-life setting to a topic that students often consider very abstract.

Excerpt

Rev. Feb. 7, 2022

Option Greeks, Insider Trading, and the Heinz Acquisition

Just before Warren Buffett's company, Berkshire Hathaway Inc (Berkshire Hathaway), acquired H. J. Heinz Company (Heinz) on February 14, 2013, rumors had been circulating that the Omaha investing oracle had set eyes on the condiment giant. By the time of the official acquisition announcement, questions had arisen about some unusual trading activity in financial markets.

Ana Barre was one of the people who suspected that there might be something unusual going on. She had received a tip that illicit trading might have taken place in the option market surrounding the Berkshire Hathaway–Heinz acquisition. She was an analyst with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Market Abuse Unit team, so it was her duty to investigate. With years of experience, however, Barre was never quick to declare illegal gains without overwhelming evidence. She knew there were countless perfectly legitimate investment strategies that could explain the bets that investors had made. Investors routinely employed trading strategies that combined stock and options to create payoffs that precisely fit their investment theses. Derivatives markets also allowed them to take a lot more risk and make more of a return, thanks to the leverage naturally embedded in derivative contracts.

. . .

Keywords: options, Greeks, insider trading, Berkshire Hathaway, 3G Capital, Warren Buffett, Heinz, M&A, mergers and acquisitions, SEC, derivative contract, derivatives, takeover, stock, put-call, arbitrage, Black-Scholes, option pricing, Terpins

Suggested Citation:

Tomio, Davide and Augustin, Patrick and Brenner, Menachem and Subrahmanyam, Marti G., Option Greeks, Insider Trading, and the Heinz Acquisition. Darden Case No. UVA-F-1978, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3942604
Purchase - $6.25
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
17
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,368
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Darden Case Collection

Follow

Finance Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies