Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Explaining the Heterogeneity in Rival Response of Acquisition Targets: Evidence from Media Coverage

Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Weidong Xu

Zhejiang University - School of Management

Xin Gao

Zhejiang University - School of Management

Zhe An

Monash Business School

Donghui Li

Shenzhen University - College of Economics

Date Written: October 14, 2021

Abstract

This study finds that the rival response of acquisition targets is positively associated with rivals’ media coverage. We show that media coverage increases the probability of rivals being targeted in the future and the expected returns conditional on future acquisitions, thus supporting the acquisition probability hypothesis. Moreover, we document that the impact of media coverage on the rival response is achieved through the information asymmetry channel, the corporate governance channel, the default risk channel, and the liquidity channel. Overall, our study offers new insights into the real impact of media on M&As by focusing on its impact on rival firms.

Keywords: M&As; Rival Response; Media

JEL Classification: G34; G14

Suggested Citation:

Xu, Weidong and Gao, Xin and An, Zhe and Li, Donghui, Explaining the Heterogeneity in Rival Response of Acquisition Targets: Evidence from Media Coverage (October 14, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3942224
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
369
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies