Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $6.25
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Vignettes: Board Dynamics and Culture (a)

Darden Case No. UVA-S-0349

13 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2021 Last revised: 11 Nov 2022

Yo-Jud Cheng

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Stephen E. Maiden

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Abstract

The realities of boardroom dynamics can often reveal a different story than how things appear on paper. Boards need the right dynamics and culture to effectively carry out their responsibilities. At their best, boards can catch budding issues before they negatively impact the firm and can partner with management to lead through change, like they did with Indra Nooyi's transformation of PepsiCo. Given the dual mandate of boards to both monitor and advise management, how can boards strike the right balance? This case begins with a brief discussion of director and board performance, along with an analysis of the role of government regulation in promoting healthy board dynamics. Then you are asked to act as a consultant to evaluate the board dynamics and culture of three companies presented below in vignettes: GE, Theranos, and PepsiCo. The GE and Theranos vignettes focus on governance challenges, while the PepsiCo vignette focuses on a successful board–management partnership. The B case explores subsequent governance changes that were made at each company and allows for a discussion of governance evolution.

Excerpt

UVA-S-0349

Rev. Jun. 16, 2022

Vignettes: Board Dynamics and Culture

Much has changed since the days when CEOs viewed independent directors as “nothing more or less than ornaments on the corporate Christmas tree;” but even after the demand for governance reform picked up speed following scandals at companies such as Enron, WorldCom, and Tyco in the early 2000s, in more recent years, we've continued to see governance lapses at high-profile companies such as General Electric (GE) and Theranos. Many of these lapses have surprised outside observers because they occurred at companies that seemed to have all the right “ornaments” in place and a boardroom filled with qualified and accomplished directors.

The realities of boardroom dynamics can often reveal a different story than how things appear on paper. Boards need the right dynamics and culture to effectively carry out their responsibilities. At their best, boards can catch budding issues before they negatively impact the firm and can partner with management to lead through change, like they did with Indra Nooyi's transformation of PepsiCo. Given the dual mandate of boards to both monitor and advise management, how can boards strike the right balance? This case begins with a brief discussion of director and board performance, along with an analysis of the role of government regulation in promoting healthy board dynamics. Then you are asked to act as a consultant to evaluate the board dynamics and culture of three companies presented below in vignettes: GE, Theranos, and PepsiCo.

Director Performance

. . .

Keywords: strategy, board performance, CEO performance, boardroom dynamics, management, government regulation

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Yo-Jud and Maiden, Stephen E., Vignettes: Board Dynamics and Culture (a). Darden Case No. UVA-S-0349, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3942730
Purchase - $6.25
24 References
Corporate Governance Guidelines , Nyse
da-filter!WKUS-TAL-DOCS-PHC-%7B0588BF4A-D3B5-4B91-94EA-BE9F17057DF0%7D--WKUS_TAL_5667%23teid-77 Posted: 2009-11-26
David Larcker , Brian Tayan
Corporate Governance Matters: A Closer Look at Organizational Choices and Their Consequences , p. 79 - 106 Posted: 2016
Carey Charan , Useem
, volume 10 , p. 61 - 79
Boris Groysberg , Jeremiah Lee , Jesse Price , J Yo , -Jud Cheng
The Leader's Guide to Corporate Culture
Harvard Business Review Posted: 2018-02
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
21
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,011
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Darden Case Collection

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies