Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Accounting for Deferred Taxes: A Systematic Review of Empirical Evidence

Management Review Quarterly, Vol. 73 No. 1, 2023, pp. 113–165. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11301-021-00233-w

Posted: 18 Oct 2021 Last revised: 14 Feb 2023

Anna Görlitz

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Michael Dobler

Dresden University of Technology - Faculty of Economics and Business Management

Date Written: February 10, 2023

Abstract

Deferred taxes—resulting from differences between financial and tax accounts—have been a long-standing, contentious issue in financial accounting regulation, practice, and research. Debates on concepts and standards have been accompanied by doubts around whether and the extent to which deferred taxes provide relevant information for financial statement users and are employed by firms to manage their earnings. This paper systematically reviews the body of empirical evidence that has emerged over the last three decades on deferred taxes in the fields of value relevance and earnings management. A bibliographic analysis and a narrative synthesis are presented within a thematic categorization framework. Key results indicate that existing research focuses on the US setting. There is substantial evidence for the value relevance of various deferred tax items but limited evidence that firms use deferred taxes to manage their earnings. The findings suggest implications for both future research and the regulatory debate.

Keywords: Deferred taxes, Earnings management, Income taxes, Value relevance, International Financial Reporting Standards, US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles

JEL Classification: H25, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Görlitz, Anna and Dobler, Michael, Financial Accounting for Deferred Taxes: A Systematic Review of Empirical Evidence (February 10, 2023). Management Review Quarterly, Vol. 73 No. 1, 2023, pp. 113–165. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11301-021-00233-w , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3942337
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
815
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies