Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $6.25
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategy and Strategic Factors at ACME Birdseed Company

Darden Case No. UVA-S-0357

3 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2021

Jeffrey Leopold

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Abstract

ACME Birdseed Company (ACME) started as a top-quality birdseed company; but as its baby boomer customers age and retire, it has begun using lower-quality ingredients while expanding to a larger range of stores and geographical areas. While it is still the dominant player in the birdseed market, its profits have been dropping for the past two years, and Angela Baker, ACME's founder and CEO, must make recommendations to its board of directors to increase shareholder confidence in the company.This cross-disciplinary case presents a fictional company dealing with many of the issues a real company faces. The primary focus is on strategy and the need to make tradeoffs, or to gauge acquired knowledge on any of these topic areas. It can also be used to discuss many other critical issues, including profit margin, marketing, customer segmentation, competition, supply chain, corporate social responsibility (CSR), regulation, entrepreneurship, and more.

Excerpt

Jul. 29, 2021

Strategy and Strategic Factors at ACME Birdseed Company

Angela Baker, CEO of ACME Birdseed Company (ACME), sat at her desk and thought of the board meeting that was about to start. At the meeting, she would have to make recommendations for what her company should do next. Despite a long record of success, the company faced numerous challenges, and shareholders needed confidence in its future.

History

. . .


Keywords: shareholder, stakeholder, Porter's Five Forces, competition, retail, strategy, value proposition, differentiation, supply chain, supplier power, market share, corporate social responsibility, CSR, profit margin, target segment, geographic expansion, IPO, channels, regulation

Suggested Citation:

Leopold, Jeffrey, Strategy and Strategic Factors at ACME Birdseed Company. Darden Case No. UVA-S-0357, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3942735 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3942735
Purchase - $6.25
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
8
ABSTRACT VIEWS
840
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Darden Case Collection

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies