Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Financial Distress, Corporate Governance, and Auditor Switching On Audit Delay

Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Angelia, S; Mawardi, R. (2021). The Impact of Financial Distress, Corporate Governance, and Auditor Switching On Audit Delay, J. Fin. Bank. Review, 6(2), 108 – 117. https://doi.org/10.35609/jfbr.2021.6.2(4)

10 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2021

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Rizal Mawardi

Accounting Study Program, Faculty of Economics, Perbanas Institute, Jakarta, Indonesia

Sylvi Angelia

Accounting Study Program, Faculty of Economics, Perbanas Institute, Jakarta, Indonesia

Date Written: September 30, 2021

Abstract

Objective - The purpose of this study is to examine the effect between financial distress, corporate governance, auditor switching and audit delay. This research sample using data on a manufacturing company on the Indonesia Stock Exchange.

Methodology – The analysis technique used is multiple linear regression analysis technique.

Findings – The research finding show that financial distress and the size of the audit committee have a significant effect on audit delay, while the concentration of ownership, managerial ownership, change of directors, and auditor switching has no significant effect on audit delay. Second finding explain that consideration for companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange to pay attention to the timeliness of submitting financial reports and independent auditor reports so as not to get sanctions from the Financial Services Authority.

Novelty – Our novelty research using the relationship of Financial Distress, Corporate Governance and Auditor Switching on new research model to Audit Delay.

Type of Paper - Empirical

Keywords: Financial Distress, Corporate Governance, Auditor Switching, Audit Delay

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Mawardi, Rizal and Angelia, Sylvi, The Impact of Financial Distress, Corporate Governance, and Auditor Switching On Audit Delay (September 30, 2021). Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Angelia, S; Mawardi, R. (2021). The Impact of Financial Distress, Corporate Governance, and Auditor Switching On Audit Delay, J. Fin. Bank. Review, 6(2), 108 – 117. https://doi.org/10.35609/jfbr.2021.6.2(4), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3942442
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
References Arry , Eksandy
The Influence of Company Size, Solvency, Profitability and Audit Committee on Audit Delay. Management of Midwifery Care in Infants with Caput Succedaneum at Sheikh Yusuf Hospital Gowa Years , volume 4 , p. 9 - 15 Posted: 2017
R G Artaningrum , I K Budhiarta , M G Wirakusuma
Pengaruh Profitabilitas, Solvabilitas, Likuiditas, Ukuran Perusahaan Dan Pergantian Manajemen Pada Audit Report Lag Perusahaan Perbankan. E-Jurnal Ekonomi Dan Bisnis Universitas Udayana , volume 3 , p. 1079 - 1108 Posted: 2017
G N M Dwiphayana , I D G Dharma Suputra
Pengaruh Opini Audit dan Audit Delay Pada Auditor Switching dengan Karakteristik Komite Audit Sebagai Pemoderasi. E-Jurnal Akuntansi , volume 28 Posted: 1965
K A Gunawan , I Badera , N Dewa
Pergantian Auditor, Opini Audit
Financial Distress dan Audit Delay. E-Jurnal Akuntansi , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 2001 - 2018 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
604
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,561
RANK
102,328
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies