Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving the Accuracy of Estimated Intrinsic Value Through Industry-Specific Valuation Models

Review of Business & Finance Studies, v. 12 (1) p. 79-89

11 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2021

Yanfu Li

Chengdu Technological University

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

This study aims to improve the accuracy of estimated intrinsic value by the industry-specific valuation model. Different industries have unique characteristics. As such, they should be valued by different valuation models. This study offers a comprehensive overview of the characteristics of financial and information technology industries and identifies the appropriate industry-specific valuation models for each industry. As the features of firms may still vary greatly even within the same industry, this study further classifies each industry into several sectors according to the Industry Classification Benchmark. After that, a series of corresponding valuation models for each sector are recommended. Detailed explanations for the recommendations are provided for each sector. This study contributes to the literature of valuation methodology by identifying the corresponding valuation models for different sectors/industries. More accurate estimation of intrinsic value can be expected as a result of more compatible valuation model.

Keywords: Industry Characteristic, Industry-Specific Valuation Method

JEL Classification: G12, G14, C10

Suggested Citation:

Li, Yanfu, Improving the Accuracy of Estimated Intrinsic Value Through Industry-Specific Valuation Models (2021). Review of Business & Finance Studies, v. 12 (1) p. 79-89, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3942064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
P Asquith , B M Mikhail , A S Au
Information content of equity analyst reports
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 75 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 282 Posted: 2005
V L Bernard
The Feltham-Ohlson framework: implications for empiricists
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 733 - 747 Posted: 1995
C S A Cheng , R Mcnamara
The valuation accuracy of the price-earnings and price-book benchmark valuation methods
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 349 - 370 Posted: 2000
A Damodaran , E G Demirakos , N C Strong , M Walker
What valuation models do analysts use? Accounting Horizons , volume 18 , p. 221 - 240 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
297
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,096
RANK
234,143
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies