Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $6.25
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The "What If" Effects of an Income Tax Rate Change: A Deferred Tax Focus

Darden Case No. UVA-C-2448

10 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2021 Last revised: 4 Mar 2022

Mark E. Haskins

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Paul J. Simko

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Abstract

A change in the corporate US federal income tax rate necessitates an adjustment to a company's balance sheet deferred tax account. Stephanie Allen has been tasked with determining the projected effects of several “what if” changes in the corporate income tax rate on her employer's (Software for Seniors, Corp.) and a peer's DuPont ratios and earnings per share performance measures.This general experience-based case uses data created by the authors that generally model the proportionalities of various line items within the financial statements of some real-world companies. As such, the financial statement effects due to an income tax rate change explored in this case are reasonable. It is suitable for an undergraduate or graduate level financial reporting course or a financial statement analysis course.

Excerpt

UVA-C-2448

Rev. Feb. 10, 2021

The “What If” Effects of an Income Tax Rate Change:

A Deferred Tax Focus

“I'll bet you an expensive lunch that Congress will pass federal income tax reform in the next month or two—it seems to be a rather regular occurrence in Washington, DC (see Exhibit 1). This time around though, it won't be a rate decrease!” opined Roger Stanley, CFO of Software for Seniors Corp. (SfS), as he stood to leave his weekly morning meeting with the company's CEO, Mia Bridges. They had both been momentarily enjoying a sense of real financial accomplishment as they had just sealed a multiyear deal with another major distributor for their software products. If they could keep their momentum going for another year or two, the prospects for a very successful IPO became more and more likely.

“You are probably right,” Bridges responded. “The relatively lower income tax rate of the past several years has contributed significantly to some of the capital investments we have made. We'll have to rethink our expansion plans if the rate goes up substantially. In theory, investment decisions should not hinge on tax contexts but in reality, they often do. Even though it's straightforward that every additional dollar we have to pay the US Treasury is one less dollar available for other purposes, Congress seems to think more is better for them, from us.”

. . .

Keywords: accounting, tax, deferred taxes, FASB

Suggested Citation:

Haskins, Mark E. and Simko, Paul J., The "What If" Effects of an Income Tax Rate Change: A Deferred Tax Focus. Darden Case No. UVA-C-2448, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3942593
Purchase - $6.25
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6
ABSTRACT VIEWS
575
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Darden Case Collection

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies