Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Experts on the Audit Committee: Wolves in Sheep’S Clothing?

The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 15 (1) p. 45-60

16 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2021

Daniel Folkinshteyn

Rowan University - Accounting & Finance

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

Research literature in accounting has assumed, and supported, the idea that financial expertise on the audit committee of firms is a positive influence on the quality of earnings reports, as measured by various proxies for earnings quality. In this paper I attempt to model and demonstrate empirically that financial expertise on the audit committee may in fact serve to merely obscure any earnings manipulation performed by managers, rather than prevent or mitigate it. The results provide support for the idea that financial expertise, when put together with certain adverse incentive factors (share ownership, being a current executive in another firm), actually increases the probability of just meeting or beating analyst consensus estimates, a measure of earnings manipulation. This presents an important contribution to the literature on the topic, elucidating the idea that financial expertise on the audit committee is not necessarily a beneficial factor.[enter Abstract Body]

Keywords: Financial Experts, Audit Committee, Earnings Management, Sarbanes-Oxley

JEL Classification: G30, G38

Suggested Citation:

Folkinshteyn, Daniel, Financial Experts on the Audit Committee: Wolves in Sheep’S Clothing? (2021). The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 15 (1) p. 45-60, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3942015
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
J Affleck-Graves , C M Callahan , N Chipalkatti
Earnings predictability, information asymmetry, and market liquidity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 3 , p. 561 - 583 Posted: 2002
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? further evidence
Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
384
RANK
841,369
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies