Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Misconduct Synergies

70 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2021 Last revised: 29 May 2024

Emmanuel Yimfor

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Heather Tookes

Yale University - Yale School of Management; Yale University - International Center for Finance

Date Written: October 13, 2021

Abstract

Do corporate control transactions discipline the labor force? Consistent with synergies, new disclosures of employee misconduct in the investment advisory industry drop by between 17 and 22 percent following mergers. Both targets and acquirers have better pre-merger misconduct records than the industry’s average firm and, within the subsample of merging firms, there is assortative matching on misconduct. Merger events facilitate further reductions in misconduct through separations of target firm employees with high misconduct. Many of these employees remain in the industry, suggesting that consolidation plays an important role in the redistribution of misconduct across firms.

Keywords: Investment Advisers, M&A, Synergies, Broker Misconduct, BrokerCheck

JEL Classification: G24, G30, G34, M14

Suggested Citation:

Yimfor, Emmanuel and Tookes, Heather, Misconduct Synergies (October 13, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3942188 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3942188
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Anup Agrawal , Ralph A Walkling
Executive careers and compensation surrounding takeover bids
The Journal of Finance , volume 49 , issue 3 , p. 985 - 1014 Posted: 1994
Rui Albuquerque , Luis Brandão-Marques , Miguel A Ferreira , Pedro Matos
International corporate governance spillovers: Evidence from crossborder mergers and acquisitions
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 738 - 770 Posted: 2019
T D Ameritrade
Mergers & acquisitions in the RIA Industry: Overcoming the Big Disconnect
wp_ fa_ overcoming_ the_ big_ disconnect. pdf Posted: 2019
Santosh Anagol , Shawn Cole , Shayak Sarkar
Understanding the advice of commissions-motivated agents: Evidence from the Indian life insurance market
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 99 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
516
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,274
RANK
124,786
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies