Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Acquisitions and the Cost of Debt: Evidence from China

International Review of Financial Analysis, Vol. 78

19 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2021 Last revised: 4 Nov 2021

Kun Tracy Wang

Australian National University - Research School of Accounting

Yue (Rio) Wu

Xiamen University - Accounting Department

Aonan Sun

Australian National University (ANU)

Date Written: October 1, 2021

Abstract

A large body of literature has examined the effect of mergers and acquisitions (M&As) on firm valuation, and generally find that M&As reduce acquirers’ shareholder value. However, relatively little is known about the effect of M&As on the pricing of corporate debt by debtholders, especially for firms in less developed countries. Using a sample of Chinese listed firms with outstanding bonds from 2007 to 2020, we find that the cost of debt is lower for acquirers than for non-acquirers, and that the effect of acquisitions in reducing cost of debt is more pronounced for firms from provinces with less developed markets, for private firms, and for firms undertaking cross-province acquisitions. Our results are robust to a series of robustness checks that address various endogenous concerns, including the use of a matched-sample approach, the use of the Heckman two-stage model, change analysis, control for acquirers’ pre-acquisition bond yield spread, and exclusion of acquisitions of publicly listed targets. Our analyses of provincial institutional factors show that the relationship between M&As and cost of debt is moderated by government relations to market, private economy development, and the development of market intermediaries and legal environment. We further document that acquirers have lower default risk during the post-acquisition period because of a coinsurance effect, and that acquirers attract more analyst following and investors after acquisitions. Overall, our results indicate that acquisitions can reduce cost of debt through reducing firms’ default risk and information risk, and that institutional factors matter for the effect of M&As on the cost of debt.


Free access provided by Elsevier (before December 17, 2021): https://authors.elsevier.com/c/1d~ZD3mS~2SOmB.

Keywords: Acquisition, Merger, Cost of debt, Institutional environment, China

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Kun Tracy and wu, yue and Sun, Aonan, Acquisitions and the Cost of Debt: Evidence from China (October 1, 2021). International Review of Financial Analysis, Vol. 78, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3942954
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
H Aldamen , K Duncan
Does adopting good corporate governance impact the cost of intermediated and non-intermediated debt? Accounting and Finance , volume 52 , p. 49 - 76 Posted: 2012
Y Amihud , B Lev
Risk reduction as a managerial motive for conglomerate mergers
The Bell Journal of Economics , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 605 - 617 Posted: 1981
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Founding family ownership and the agency cost of debt
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 68 , issue 2 , p. 263 - 285 Posted: 2003
G Andrade , M Mitchell , E Stafford
New evidence and perspectives on mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
Load more
4 Citations
Guqiang Luo , Kun Tracy Wang , yue wu
Does the market reward meeting or beating analyst earnings forecasts? Empirical evidence from China
China Accounting and Finance Review, forthcoming · 50 Pages · Posted: 1 Aug 2022 · Downloads: 89
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Shubham Kumar Verma , Satish Kumar
Operating Efficiency of Resulting Companies: An Analysis of Mergers & Acquisitions
32 Pages · Posted: 6 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 124
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mo Yang , Yifan Meng , Yan Li
Managerial Integrity: The Bridge to Lower Cost of Debt Capital
IREF-D-24-00640 · 35 Pages · Posted: 27 May 2024 · Downloads: 32
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yujie Liu , Yiwei Wang
Does the Failure of Corporate Mergers and Acquisitions Affect Innovation Efficiency
FINANA-D-24-01440 · 22 Pages · Posted: 5 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 65
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
624
RANK
588,270
4 Citations
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies