Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Passing the Mic: Career and Firm Outcomes of Executive Interactions

54 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2021 Last revised: 18 Dec 2022

Wei Cai

Columbia Business School

Ethan Rouen

Harvard Business School

Yuan Zou

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Date Written: November 1, 2022

Abstract

We exploit a unique feature of conference calls to study one type of interaction among executives — directly inviting colleagues to respond to analysts’ questions. We find that the frequency of initiating interaction is positively associated with an executive’s ability, but not associated with firm performance. When new CEOs initiate more interactions than their predecessors, interaction among the rest of the executive team also increases, suggesting a learning effect. Turning to the outcomes of this practice, we find that executives who initiate more interactions than their peers are twice as likely as the average executive to be promoted to CEO. What is more, appointing CEOs who initiate more interactions than their predecessors results in an average three-day abnormal return of 0.9% around the announcement of the appointment. Teams composed of executives who interact with each other more frequently also have greater retention. Lastly, firms in which new CEOs initiate more interactions than their predecessors experience higher growth in Tobin’s Q, a result that is concentrated among growth and R&D-intensive firms.

Suggested Citation:

Cai, Wei and Rouen, Ethan and Zou, Yuan, Passing the Mic: Career and Firm Outcomes of Executive Interactions (November 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3942049 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3942049
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
V Barker , G Mueller
CEO characteristics and firm R&D spending
Management Science , volume 48 , issue 6 , p. 782 - 801 Posted: 2002
J Becker-Blease , S Elkinawy , C Hoag , M Stater
The effects of executive, firm, and board characteristics on executive exit
The Financial Review , volume 51 , issue 4 , p. 527 - 557 Posted: 2016
E Benmelech , C Frydman , M Bertrand , A Schoar
Managing with style: The effect of managers on firm policies
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 1169 - 1208 Posted: 2003
A Blake , V Luu , O Petrenko , W Gardner , K Moergen , M Ezerins
Let's agree about nice leaders: a literature review and meta-analysis of agreeableness and its relationship with leadership outcomes
The Leadership Quarterly , volume 33 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
803
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,739
RANK
70,755
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies