Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dynamics of Corporate Governance Mechanisms - Family Firms’ Performance Relationship- a Meta-Analytic Review
Journal of Business Research

39 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2021 Last revised: 29 Nov 2021 Publication Status: Published

Parul Gupta

Management Development Institute

Sumedha Chauhan

Management Development Institute, India

Abstract

Corporate board is considered as effective corporate governance mechanism (CGM) of family firms (FF) playing a critical monitoring role and enhancing performance. FFs are, in general, quite different from non-FFs in the ownership structures, family shareholders’ involvement and control on the board, and the implications of the agency problem. Therefore, the association between CGM and FFs’ performance is not null. This study examined the relationships between board features and FFs’ performance, by performing meta-analysis of 47 recent empirical studies in varying contextual settings. Though, results indicated that several board features have significant impact on FFs’ performance, variations in their strength and direction were reported in two contextual settings: country culture and legal origin of the firm. Our results provide concrete suggestions for equipping the board with suitable attributes to enhance FFs' performance. This study explains why managers should consider the contextual settings while deciding about the board structure of FFs.

Keywords: Family Firms, Corporate Governance Mechanism, Board Attributes, Family Firms' performance, Country Culture, Legal Origin of the Firm

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Parul and Chauhan, Sumedha, Dynamics of Corporate Governance Mechanisms - Family Firms’ Performance Relationship- a Meta-Analytic Review. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3943429
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
114 References
M Alayo , A Maseda , T Iturralde , U Arzubiaga
Internationalization and entrepreneurial orientation of family SMEs: The influence of the family character
International Business Review , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 48 - 59 Posted: 2019
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: evidence from the S&P 500
The journal of finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Board composition: Balancing family influence in S&P 500 firms
Administrative science quarterly , volume 49 , issue 2 , p. 209 - 237 Posted: 2004
R C Anderson , A Duru , D M Reeb
Founders, heirs, and corporate opacity in the United States
Journal of Financial economics , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 222 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
630
1 Citations
114 References
PlumX Metrics
Specialities
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies