Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Financial Management Practices and Competitive Advantage on the Loan Performance: The Mediatory Role of Intellectual Capital (Human, Relational and Social)

25 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2021 Last revised: 5 May 2023

Naseer Naseer

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Danish Ahmed Siddiqui

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Date Written: October 15, 2021

Abstract

In Pakistan microfinance institutions have since been diversifying their product-offering by exploring new areas which include enterprise loans, housing finance, personal loans and deposits, leasing, insurance, and remittance services. In this paper, we investigated the effect of financial management practice and intellectual capital on loan performance in Pakistan’s microfinance institutions. We also examined the direct and indirect effect of competitive advantages on the loan performance of MFIs. In this paper, we include three dimensions of intellectual capital which are human capital, structural capital, and relational capital. The target population for this survey was employees of microfinance institutions MFIs in Pakistan, who are working at a different level. A total of 349 questionnaire papers were distributed. A PLS Smart methodology was employed to test the hypotheses and descriptive statistics were used to explore data characteristics. We have found that financial management practice is positively but insignificantly impacting loan performance. However, financial management practice is positively and significantly impacting on competitive advantages. Similarly, financial management practice has a positive and significant impact on all three dimensions of intellectual capital. Regarding intellectual capital, human and Relational capital is positively and significantly impact loan performance. Whereas structural and relational capital both are a positive and insignificantly impact on loan performance. Structural capital and relational capital both are positively and significantly impact competitive advantage, but human capital is positively and significantly impacts competitive advantage. Similarly, competitive advantage is also positively and significantly impact loan performance. We suggested that the management of MFIs must apply sound financial management practices for the focal MFI to remain competitive in the industry. It can create a cost-benefit and also enable differentiation.

Keywords: Management practices, Loan performances, Competitive advantages, Intellectual capital, Microfinance, Pakistan

Suggested Citation:

Naseer, Naseer and Siddiqui, Danish Ahmed, The Impact of Financial Management Practices and Competitive Advantage on the Loan Performance: The Mediatory Role of Intellectual Capital (Human, Relational and Social) (October 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3943063 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3943063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
811
RANK
328,615
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies