Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Directors’ Effort and Firm Efficiency Influence Performance of a Diversified Firm?
Journal of Business Research

41 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2021 Last revised: 29 Nov 2021 Publication Status: Published

Punit Arora

City University of New York

Ajai Gaur

Rutgers Business School - Newark and New Brunswick

Abstract

Studying how boards contribute to firm performance and examining implementation costs associated with diversification strategy are domains of growing interest to strategy scholars. We integrate these incipient literatures to examine the role of Peer Independent Executive Directors’ (PIED) effort in improving the performance of diversified firms. Using a longitudinal sample of US firms, we show that the PIED efforts are progressively beneficial for firm performance with successive increases in diversification levels, irrespective of diversification type. While we also theorized that the benefits of PIED efforts are greater for firms with lower benchmarked efficiency, we find results to the contrary. We contribute to both corporate governance and diversification research by highlighting the role of director domain expertise and effort in improving firm performance.

Keywords: Diversification, benchmarked firm efficiency, strategy implementation costs, peer CEO directors, director effort

Suggested Citation:

Arora, Punit and Gaur, Ajai S., How Do Directors’ Effort and Firm Efficiency Influence Performance of a Diversified Firm?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3943430
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
A Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue 2 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
E Altman
Why businesses fail
Journal of Business Strategy , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 15 - 21 Posted: 1993
Y Amihud , B Lev
Risk Reduction as a Managerial Motive for Conglomerate Mergers
The Bell Journal of Economics , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 605 - 617 Posted: 1981
Y Amihud , B Lev
Does corporate ownership structure affect its strategy towards diversification?
Strategic Management Journal , volume 20 , issue 11 , p. 1063 - 1069 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
543
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Specialities
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies