Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does the Accounting Conservatism Affect the Stock Price Crash Risk in Pakistan: The Complementary Role of Managerial and Institutional Ownership?

30 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2021 Last revised: 9 May 2022

AON WAQAS BALOCH

Independent

Danish Ahmed Siddiqui

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Date Written: October 16, 2021

Abstract

The conservatism of accounting and robustness of accounting information disclosure may restrain the irrational behavior of investors and help to reduce the risk of stock price crashes. This study aims to explore this in the context of developing country Pakistan. More specifically, this study investigates the effect of accounting conservatism on stock price crash risk. Moreover, we also examine the complementary role of managerial and institutional ownership in strengthening this effect. We argue that a higher level of shares held by management and institutional investors would further strengthen the impact of accounting conservatism in avoiding a price crash. This study conducts the panel data analysis of 155 nonfinancial firms listed in PSX from 2007 to 2019. This study calculates the C-Score to measure the accounting conservatism with the help of the (Basu, 1997) model. This study measures the firm’s stock price crash risk by calculating the DUVOL of weekly share prices according to the (Xu et al., 2012) model. This study finds that there is a significant negative effect of accounting conservatism on firms’ stock price crash risk. This study also finds that managerial ownership enhances the stock price crash risk of the sample firms significantly as a moderator while there is no significant moderating influence of institutional ownership. The firms’ managers try to hide the bad news. This is because of the weak governance system of Pakistan. Furthermore, the ownership structure in Pakistan is centralized. This study suggests that institutional investors should consider the transparency of information. They should build pressure on management to anticipate the bad news with the help of the conservatism principle. The competent authorities of Pakistan i.e., SECP and PSX should consider agency conflicts. They should direct the firms’ management to share equal information in time regardless of whether the information is good or bad for stock prices.

Keywords: Accounting Conservatism, Stock Price Crash Risk, Managerial Ownership, Institutional Ownership, and Agency Problem in Pakistan.

Suggested Citation:

BALOCH, AON WAQAS and Siddiqui, Danish Ahmed, How Does the Accounting Conservatism Affect the Stock Price Crash Risk in Pakistan: The Complementary Role of Managerial and Institutional Ownership? (October 16, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3943829 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3943829
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
F Alhayati
Pengaruh Tingkat Hutang (Leverage) dan Tingkat Kesulitan Keuangan Posted: 2013
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings1
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
W Beekes , P Pope , S Young
The link between earnings timeliness, earnings conservatism, and board composition: Evidence from the U.K. Corporate Governance , volume 12 , p. 47 - 59 Posted: 2004
P Chen , J Zhou
Effects of the built environment on automobile-involved pedestrian crash frequency and risk
Journal of Transport & Health , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 448 - 456 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,328
RANK
239,255
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies