Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do CEOs Who Trade Shares Adopt More Aggressive Corporate Investment Strategies?

Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, Vol. 40, 2016

49 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Reza Bradrania

University of South Australia - UniSA Business School

P. Joakim Westerholm

University of Sydney Business School

James Yeoh

The University of Sydney

Date Written: January 05, 2016

Abstract

This paper investigates whether trading behavior of CEOs impacts the levels of corporate investment. Prior studies show that individuals who trade on the stock market are less financially conservative. We find that this behavioural attribute is consistent over both the individual and corporate domain. Corporations with trading CEOs have higher capital expenditure and make significantly more acquisitions, and CEOs with higher portfolio turnover engage in riskier forms of corporate investment. We contribute to the literature by enhancing the current understanding of what key attributes and traits motivate CEOs to engage in corporate investment.

Keywords: CEO risk aversion, CEO compensation

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Bradrania, Reza and Westerholm, P. Joakim and Yeoh, James, Do CEOs Who Trade Shares Adopt More Aggressive Corporate Investment Strategies? (January 05, 2016). Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, Vol. 40, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3943318
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
N Aktas , E De Bodt , R Roll
Learning, Hubris and Corporate Serial Acquisitions
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 15 , p. 543 - 561 Posted: 2009
A Agrawal , G Mandelker
Managerial incentives and corporate investment and financing decision
Journal of Finance , volume 42 , p. 823 - 837 Posted: 1987
C Armstrong , R Vashishtha
Executive stock options, differential risk-taking incentives, and firm value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 104 , p. 70 - 88 Posted: 2012
L S Bamber , J Jiang , I Y Wang
Managers on Voluntary Corporate Financial Disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
430
RANK
906,046
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies