Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Corporate Investment on Market Frictions: Implication for the stock price delay premium

Applied Economics Letter, forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021 Last revised: 17 May 2023

Moonsoo Kang

CUNY Brooklyn College

Date Written: September 1, 2021

Abstract

We propose the potential role of corporate investment in reducing market frictions by exploring the effect of corporate investment on the risk of a stock. Specifically, we demonstrate that higher corporate investment leads to lower premium for stocks exhibiting the delay with which stock price responds to information. Moreover, this phenomenon is more pronounced during the low sentiment or low liquidity period. We also find that corporate investment exerts its influence regardless of industry, firm size, or financial constraint. Overall, we suggest that corporate investment attenuates the stock price delay effect through its impact on the risk of a stock.

Keywords: Corporate Investment, Market Frictions, Stock Price Delay Premium

JEL Classification: G11, G14

Suggested Citation:

Kang, Moonsoo, The Effect of Corporate Investment on Market Frictions: Implication for the stock price delay premium (September 1, 2021). Applied Economics Letter, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3943685 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3943685
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Yakov Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Asset pricing and the bid-ask spread
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 17 , p. 223 - 249 Posted: 1986
Y Amihud , H Mendelson , L H Pedersen
Liquidity and Asset Prices
Foundations and Trends in Finance , volume 1 , p. 269 - 364 Posted: 2005
Christopher Anderson , Luis Garcia-Feijoo
Empirical evidence on capital investment, growth options, and security returns
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , p. 171 - 194 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
519
RANK
753,521
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies