Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dodge v. Ford: What Happened and Why?

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 619/2021

37 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2021 Last revised: 30 Nov 2021

Mark J. Roe

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: November 12, 2021

Abstract


Behind Henry Ford’s business decisions that led to the widely taught, famous-in-law-school Dodge v. Ford shareholder primacy decision were three industrial organization structures that put Ford in a difficult business position. First, Ford Motor had a highly profitable monopoly and needed much cash for the just-begun construction of the River Rouge factory, which was said to be the world’s largest when completed. Second, to stymie union organizers and to motivate his new assembly-line workers, Henry Ford raised worker pay greatly; Ford could not maintain his monopoly without sufficient worker buy-in. And, third, if Ford explicitly justified his acts as in pursuit of the monopoly profit in the litigation, the Ford brand would have been damaged with both his workforce and the car buyers. The transactions underlying Dodge v. Ford and resulting in the court order that a very large dividend be paid should be reconceptualized as Ford Motor Company and its auto workers splitting the “monopoly rectangle” that Ford Motor’s assembly line produced, with Ford’s business requiring tremendous cash expenditures to keep and expand that monopoly. Hence, a common interpretation of the litigation setting—that Ford let slip his charitable purpose when he could have won with a business judgment defense—should be reconsidered. Ford had a true business purpose to cutting back the dividend—spending on labor and a vertically integrated factory to solidify his monopoly and splitting the monopoly profit with labor—but he would have jeopardized the strategy’s effectiveness by boldly articulating it.

The existing main interpretations of the corporate law decision and its realpolitik remain relevant—such as Ford seeking to squeeze out the Dodge brothers by cutting the Ford dividend to deny the Dodge brothers cash for their own car company. But those interpretations must take a back seat, as none fully encompasses the industrial setting—of monopoly, incipient union organizing, and a restless workforce. Without accounting for Ford Motor’s monopoly, the River Rouge construction, and the related labor tensions, we cannot fully understand the Dodge v. Ford controversy. Stakeholder pressure can more readily succeed in a firm having significant economic rents, a setting that seems common today and was true for Ford Motor Company in the 1910s.



Keywords: corporate governance, corporate purpose, stakeholders, hedge funds, shareholder activism, rents, agency costs, political economy, corporate interests, ESG, CSR, $5/day

JEL Classification: G30, G38, G41, J42, J50, K21, K22, L1, L21, M14

Suggested Citation:

Roe, Mark J., Dodge v. Ford: What Happened and Why? (November 12, 2021). European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 619/2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3943559 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3943559
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
William T Allen , Reinier Kraakman , S Vikramaditya , Khanna
Dodge is in all corporate law casebooks
COMMENTARIES AND CASES ON THE LAW OF BUSINESS ORGANIZATION 311 Posted: 2021
William L Cary
CASES AND MATERIALS ON CORPORATIONS , p. 1580 - 1588
Robert C Clark , Corporate Law
, p. 602 - 604
Jesse H Choper , John C Coffee , J R Ronald , J Gilson
The most famous case in which a court actually ordered the payment of a dividend
EISENBERG, supra note 1 , volume 35 , p. 134 - 136 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,929
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,661
RANK
19,773
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies