Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Influencing Dividend Decisions of KSE-100 Indexed Firms

29 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2021 Last revised: 23 May 2022

Salman Fahim

Karachi University Business School

Danish Ahmed Siddiqui

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Date Written: October 15, 2021

Abstract

This research paper aims to identify the factors that influencing dividend policy by analyzing data of 100 companies of Pakistan stock exchange i.e., KSE-100 index. Three alternative approaches for checking and validating the findings obtained from each other are used in this paper. These approaches include fully modified ordinary least squares (OLS), dynamic OLS, and generalized methods of moments (GMM). The Empirical results indicate that dividend payout ratios are significantly and positively influenced by the previous dividends paid. The size of the firm as measured through the natural logarithm of sales is also found positive influence on the future dividend payout ratio of selected firms. Firm risk and leverage also seem to be affected by dividend payout ratios and these variables have a negative relationship. Profitability seems to have a positive effect on DRP as expected, however, liquidity negatively and significantly affect dividend payouts. This study will be helpful to various stakeholders of KSE-100 index companies. Different significant determinants as recognized can be utilized by the management for designing optimum dividend policy and providing maximum benefits to existing shareholders. Similarly, current and prospective shareholders will forecast the expected dividend payout and may therefore take investment decisions in these companies, since the requirement of a company for the future fund depends on the dividend payment and retention ratio.

Keywords: dividend payout ratio, dynamic ordinary least square, fully modified ordinary least square, panel data, corporate governance, KSE-100 index

Suggested Citation:

Fahim, Salman and Siddiqui, Danish Ahmed, Factors Influencing Dividend Decisions of KSE-100 Indexed Firms (October 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3943000 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3943000
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
F Adjaoud , W Ben-Amar
Corporate Governance and Dividend Policy: Shareholders' Protection or Expropriation
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 37 , issue 5-6 , p. 648 - 667 Posted: 2010
A Agrawal , N Jayaraman
The Dividend Policies of All-equity Firms: A Direct Test of the Free Cash Flow Theory
Managerial and Decision Economics , volume 15 , p. 139 - 148 Posted: 1994
H Ahmad , A Javid
The Ownership Structure and Dividend Payout Policy in Pakistan (Evidence from Karachi stock Exchange 100 Index)
International Journal of Business Management and Economic Research , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 69 Posted: 2010
H Ahmed , A Y Javid
Dynamics and determinants of dividend policy in Pakistan (evidence from Karachi stock exchange non-financial listed firms)
International Research Journal of Finance and Economics , volume 25 , p. 148 - 171 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
422
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,640
RANK
158,514
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Corporate Finance & Governance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies