Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Building Reputation in Emerging Markets through Corporate Social Responsibility

Proceedings of the Eleventh International Conference on Engaged Management Scholarship- EMS 2021

12 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2021

Dale Herndon

Georgia State University

Richard Baskerville

Georgia State University

Date Written: October 18, 2021

Abstract

Emerging markets offer an opportunity for growth, but they also present challenges to foreign companies: what worked in the home country probably won't work in the host country. Moreover, gaining acceptance and building a reputation with consumers and stakeholders requires proven commitment to product quality and the ability to consummate transactions effectively, both of which take time. The purpose of the proposed research is to provide evidence that a firm entering an emerging market may distinguish itself in the marketplace by demonstrating its commitment to corporate social responsibility (CSR).

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Environmental Social Ethical And Governance (ESG), Emerging Markets, Institutional Voids

Suggested Citation:

Herndon, Dale and Baskerville, Richard, Building Reputation in Emerging Markets through Corporate Social Responsibility (October 18, 2021). Proceedings of the Eleventh International Conference on Engaged Management Scholarship- EMS 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3944832
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
K L Becker-Olsen , B A Cudmore , R P Hill
The impact of perceived corporate social responsibility on consumer behavior
Journal of Business Research , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 46 - 53 Posted: 2006
G Berens , C B M Van Riel , G H Van Bruggen
Corporate Associations and Consumer Product Responses: The Moderating Role of Corporate Brand Dominance
Journal of Marketing , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 35 - 53 Posted: 2005
C B Bhattacharya , S Sen
Doing Better at Doing Good: When, Why, and How Consumers Respond To Corporate Social Initiatives
California Management Review , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 9 - 24 Posted: 2004
G J Biehal , D A Sheinin
The Influence of Corporate Messages on the Product Portfolio
Journal of Marketing , volume 71 , issue 2 , p. 12 - 25 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
811
RANK
580,030
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies