Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings growth and acquisition returns: Do investors gamble in the takeover market?

Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA), forthcoming

72 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2021

Tingting Liu

University of Tennessee, Knoxville; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Danni Tu

Southern Illinois University at Carbondale

Date Written: October 20, 2021

Abstract

We document a strong positive initial market reaction to merger announcements from bidders with either large earnings growth or significant earnings decline, relative to those with neutral earnings change, reflecting a U-shaped pattern between bidders’ earnings growth and announcement returns. However, the higher initial returns for bidders with earnings decline subsequently reverse, while the higher returns for bidders with high growth do not. We further show that the return patterns are driven by a tendency for retail investors to gamble that mergers and acquisition (M&A) deals initiated by poorly performing bidders will generate high synergies.

Keywords: mergers and acquisitions, acquirer announcement returns, retail investors, gambling, overreaction, reversals

JEL Classification: G41, G14, G34

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Tingting and Tu, Danni, Earnings growth and acquisition returns: Do investors gamble in the takeover market? (October 20, 2021). Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA), forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3946369
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
G Andrade , M Mitchell , E Stafford
New Evidence and Perspectives on Mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
M Baker , J Wurgler
Investor Sentiment and the Cross-Section of Stock Returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , p. 1645 - 1680 Posted: 2006
M Baker , J Wurgler
Behavioral Corporate Finance: An Updated Survey
Handbook of the Economics of Finance , volume 2 , p. 357 - 424 Posted: 2013
M Baker , X Pan , J Wurgler
The Effect of Reference Point Prices on Mergers and Acquisitions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 106 , p. 49 - 71 Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Arnold R. Cowan , Cynthia G. Jeffrey , Qian Wang
Does Writing Down Goodwill Imperil a CEO’s Job?
54 Pages · Posted: 9 Jan 2021 · Last revised: 31 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 234
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
331
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,416
RANK
208,120
1 Citations
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies