Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Partisan Bias and Management Earnings Forecast Bias

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2021 Last revised: 15 Apr 2024

Michael D. Stuart

Oklahoma State University - Stillwater - Spears School of Business

Jing Wang

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Richard H. Willis

Vanderbilt University - Accounting

Date Written: October 1, 2021

Abstract

Prior research concludes that managers’ decision making is influenced by their political orientation and offers the political connections and risk tolerance hypotheses as avenues through which political orientation may affect managerial behavior. We investigate partisan bias as an additional channel through which political orientation may influence managers’ decisions. Partisan bias results in individuals whose partisan orientation aligns with that of the US president expressing more favorable views of the economy and experiencing more optimistic economic expectations. We examine whether partisan bias is present in managers’ annual earnings forecasts. We find that firms with CEOs whose partisanship aligns with that of the US president (i.e., partisan-aligned CEOs) issue more optimistically biased management annual earnings forecasts than other CEOs. In cross-sectional analyses, we find that this forecast over-optimism is attenuated when CEOs are of higher ability. We study the means through which the over-optimism of partisan-aligned CEOs impacts their estimates of future firm performance and the resulting impact on overinvestment. We find that revenue forecasts of firms with partisan-aligned CEOs are overly optimistic, suggesting that they overestimate customer demand. Using three measures of overinvestment, we generally find that overinvestment is greater for firms with partisan-aligned CEOs. Our results suggest that CEOs fall prey to partisan bias, which results in optimistically biased forecasts and suboptimal investment decisions. We also find that investors fail to discount the news in forecasts issued by partisan-aligned CEOs and that post-forecast abnormal returns are lower for firms with these CEOs.

Keywords: partisan bias, cognitive bias, political orientation, management earnings forecasts, voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: G30, G41, M41

Suggested Citation:

Stuart, Michael D. and Wang, Jing and Willis, Richard H., CEO Partisan Bias and Management Earnings Forecast Bias (October 1, 2021). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3946547 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3946547
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
L F Ackert , R Deaves , J Miele , Q Nguyen
Are time preference and risk preference associated with cognitive intelligence and emotional intelligence
Journal of Behavioral Finance , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 136 - 156 Posted: 2020
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
S P Baginski , J M Hassell , M D Kimbrough
The effect of legal environment on voluntary disclosure: Evidence from management earnings forecasts issued in U.S. and Canadian markets
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
425
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,956
RANK
157,252
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies