Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Corporate Culture Impact Audit Pricing? Evidence from Textual Analysis

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting

50 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2021

Huimin (Amy) Chen

University of Massachusetts Lowell - The Robert J. Manning School of Business

Bill B. Francis

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) - Lally School of Management

Tahseen Hasan

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Date Written: October 21, 2021

Abstract

This study examines whether auditors incorporate their clients’ corporate culture into audit pricing. We construct a measure of corporate collaboration culture using textual analysis of public firms’ 10-K reports. We find that firms with more collaboration culture pay lower audit fees. We argue that firms with a culture of collaboration emphasize harmony among people, leading to lower litigation risk, which lowers auditor risk premiums. Collaboration culture also encourages employees’ reporting of errors and problems, leading to lower control risk, which lowers audit risk premiums. Using path analysis and a structural equation model, our findings support the argument. Moreover, we do not find evidence supporting alternative explanations of reduced audit quality and significant auditor changes. The negative relation between collaboration culture and audit fees is robust to multiple alternative measures of collaboration culture, but we caution about the interpretation of the economic significance of our finding.

Keywords: Corporate Culture, Collaboration Culture, Audit Fees, Audit Risk, Textual Analysis

JEL Classification: M42, Z1

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Huimin (Amy) and Francis, Bill B. and Hasan, Tahseen and Wu, Qiang, Does Corporate Culture Impact Audit Pricing? Evidence from Textual Analysis (October 21, 2021). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3946750
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Statement on Auditing Standards No. 47: Audit risk and materiality in conducting an audit Posted: 1983
P C Andreou , T Harris , D Philip
Measuring Firms' Market Orientation Using Textual Analysis of 10-K Filings
Forthcoming, British Journal of Management Posted: 2019
R J Balvers , J F Gaski , B Mcdonald
Financial disclosure and customer satisfaction: do companies talking the talk actually walk the walk?
Journal of business ethics , volume 139 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 45 Posted: 2016
P R Beaulieu
The effects of judgments of new clients' integrity upon risk judgments, audit evidence, and fees
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 85 - 99 Posted: 2001
Load more
10 Citations
Muhammad Jahangir Ali , Balasingham Balachandran , Huu Nhan Duong , Premkanth Puwanenthiren , Michael F. Theobald
Does Option Trading Affect Audit Pricing?
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting · 71 Pages · Posted: 31 Oct 2018 · Last revised: 8 Jul 2024 · Downloads: 318
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ionela Andreicovici , Sara Bormann , Katharina Hombach
Trade Secret Protection and the Integration of Information within Firms
TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 78 · 59 Pages · Posted: 8 Jul 2021 · Last revised: 13 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 750
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M. Kabir Hassan , Md. Sydul Karim
Corporate Culture and Inventory Behavior
47 Pages · Posted: 1 Jun 2022 · Downloads: 145
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Md Noman Hossain , Rasheek Irtisam , Monika Rabarison , Pritam Saha
Corporate Integrity Culture and Stock Price Crash Risk
36 Pages · Posted: 4 Dec 2022 · Last revised: 22 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 217
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,160
RANK
274,044
10 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies