Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Structure, Financial Performance and Agency Theory in the Automobile Industry in India

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. 20, No. 2, April 2021, pp. 58-78

Posted: 14 Dec 2021

Vibha Tripathi

Ahmedabad University (AU)

Date Written: April 21, 2021

Abstract

The financial performance and capital structure decisions cannot be independent of each other in the light of agency costs of risk shifting behavior in times of financial distress. Against this backdrop, the study investigates the relationship between capital structure and financial performance of the Automobile Industry in India from 2001 to 2014. Panel data approach has been applied to find out if financial performance represented by Return on Assets (ROA) and Return on Equity (ROE) has any relationship with the capital structure. Debt Equity ratio (D/E ratio) represents the leverage or capital structure. Variables like growth, size, tangibility and CFCR are used as control variables. D/E ratio has a significant impact on the financial performance of the Automobile Industry. Out of the control variables, only growth had a positive and significant impact on the financial performance of the companies. Other variables like size, tangibility and CFCR were found to be insignificant in influencing the financial performance of the companies. The negative relationship between D/E ratio and financial performance signals agency problem between firm’s equity investor and debt holders, where firms are likely to have high leverage, leading to low financial performance. Thus debt creates opportunities for shareholders to invest in a suboptimal manner. This can result in shifting risk from shareholders to lenders and of appropriating wealth in their favor. Due to risk shifting behavior, there is possibility of debt overhang. This leads to financial distress and higher agency costs to firms. Default risk leads to debt overhang and eventually bankruptcy and this becomes a cost.

Suggested Citation:

Tripathi, Vibha, Capital Structure, Financial Performance and Agency Theory in the Automobile Industry in India (April 21, 2021). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. 20, No. 2, April 2021, pp. 58-78, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3946822
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
767
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies