Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Co-opted Boards Socially Responsible?

Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting, Forthcoming

75 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2021 Last revised: 3 Oct 2023

Huy Viet Hoang

University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam

Cuong Nguyen

Lincoln University (NZ)

Khanh Hoang

University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam

Christopher Gan

Lincoln University (NZ)

Date Written: June 26, 2023

Abstract

Corporate resolution on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) communication informs firms’ environmental commitment, a growing determinant of corporate risk profile perceived by the market. This study examines ESG reporting in the presence of board co-option, a phenomenon that paralyzes the dependency of the board of directors and impairs corporate transparency. Using data from 643 U.S. listed firms from 2007 to 2018, we investigate the relationship between board co-option and ESG disclosure practices and show that firms with a higher proportion of co-opted directors on board disclose less ESG information, though this relationship diminishes if firms are strong ESG reporters. Further analyses reveal that long-tenure board chairs, high attendance rates at board and audit committee meetings, and independent chairs of audit committees mitigate this adverse effect. In addition, we document an increasing inverse relationship among firms located in more corrupt and Democratic-leaning states and operating in heavy-emitting industries. Our results support the premise that co-opted directors insulate CEOs from ESG reporting pressure and highlight that corporate governance, environmental performance as well as state institutions play significant moderating roles in this relationship.

Keywords: CEOs, co-opted board, corporate governance, environment, ESG disclosure, institution

JEL Classification: G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hoang, Huy Viet and Nguyen, Cuong and Hoang, Khanh and Gan, Christopher, Are Co-opted Boards Socially Responsible? (June 26, 2023). Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3947015
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
S A Al-Tuwaijri , T E Christensen , K E Hughes
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: a simultaneous equations approach
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 32 - 33 Posted: 2004
H Aldamen , K Duncan , S Kelly , R Mcnamara , S Nagel
Audit committee characteristics and firm performance during the global financial crisis
Accounting and Finance , volume 52 , p. 971 - 1000 Posted: 2012
R Appuhami , S Tashakor
The impact of audit committee characteristics on CSR disclosure: An analysis of Australian firms
Australian Accounting Review , volume 27 , p. 400 - 420 Posted: 2017
G A Baghdadi , L H G Nguyen , E J Podolski
Board co-option and default risk
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 64 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
669
RANK
730,194
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies