Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asset Market Experiments with Diverse Information

HANDBOOK OF EXPERIMENTAL FINANCE, Sascha Füllbrunn and Ernan Haruvy (eds), Edward Elgar Publishing, Forthcoming

31 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2021

Dominik Schmidt

MCI - The Entrepreneurial School

Thomas Stöckl

MCI - The Entrepreneurial School

Date Written: October 22, 2021

Abstract

On financial markets, information is a highly demanded resource and processing it to (potentially) generate excess returns drives the activities of many market participants. Not surprisingly, this high relevance of information in markets culminates in a high research interest focusing on how information affects traders' behavior and market outcomes. It is, however, challenging to meet this interest with empirical data as it is almost impossible to observe or control, which information traders possess in real markets. Therefore, laboratory environments are a perfect tool to address research questions emerging in this field as they allow researchers to design and control all relevant aspects, in particular, the information structure prevailing in a market. In this paper, we review the experimental finance literature investigating markets with different information structures to better understand how these structures influence trader behavior and market outcomes. By doing so, we provide the interested reader with a comprehensive overview of the main research areas and the respective results.

Keywords: Experimental finance, asset market, diverse information, asymmetric information, private information, heterogeneous information, information aggregation, information dissemination

JEL Classification: C92, D82, G10, G12, G14, G40

Suggested Citation:

Schmidt, Dominik and Stöckl, Thomas, Asset Market Experiments with Diverse Information (October 22, 2021). HANDBOOK OF EXPERIMENTAL FINANCE, Sascha Füllbrunn and Ernan Haruvy (eds), Edward Elgar Publishing, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3947626 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3947626
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
132 References
George A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": quality uncertainity and the market mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Simone Alfarano , Ivan Barreda-Tarrazona , Eva Camacho-Cuena
On the role of heterogeneous and imperfect information in a laboratory financial market
Central European Journal of Operations Research , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 417 - 433 Posted: 2006
Simone Alfarano , Eva Camacho , Andrea Morone
The role of public and private informationin a laboratory financial market Posted: 2011
Simone Alfarano , Eva Camacho , Andrea Morone
Do investors rely too much on public information to be justified by its accuracy? an experimental study. FinMaP-Working Paper 30 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,294
RANK
592,557
1 Citations
132 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies