Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate governance and voluntary disclosure of sustainability performance: The case of Jordan

Al Amosh, H., & Khatib, S. F. (2021). Corporate governance and voluntary disclosure of sustainability performance: The case of Jordan. SN Business & Economics.‏

29 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Hamzeh Al Amosh

Ministry of Education and Higher Education Qatar

Saleh F. A. Khatib

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Date Written: October 21, 2021

Abstract

Non-financial information is subject to development based on the expectations of stakeholders. As the financial information alone no longer satisfies their desires, this has contributed to improving the phenomenon of disclosure for many countries, especially in issues related to sustainability. In Jordan, disclosure practices are still emerging and voluntary. This study, therefore, investigates the level of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosure in the published annual reports of industrial companies listed on the Amman Stock Exchange and examines several factors related to corporate governance mechanisms and their impact on the level of disclosure. The current study used content analysis to determine the level of disclosure. The results showed that the level of disclosure on ESG performance is still weak. Still, it is developing over time in response to the pressure of stakeholders. The results also revealed a significant impact of the board size and board meetings on the ESG performance. In contrast, the results were disappointing concerning the rest of the proposed factors (non-executive directors, audit committee, auditor type, and board compensation). It did not play any role in explaining the practices of companies in the disclosure of ESG. The case study results help shed light on the interaction of the Jordanian industrial companies listed on sustainability issues. They are considered of interest to various stakeholders, regulators, and relevant government agencies and provide recent evidence of disclosure literature in emerging countries.

Keywords: sustainability disclosure, corporate disclosure, ESG disclosure, corporate governance, board of director.

Suggested Citation:

Al Amosh, Hamzeh and Khatib, Saleh F. A., Corporate governance and voluntary disclosure of sustainability performance: The case of Jordan (October 21, 2021). Al Amosh, H., & Khatib, S. F. (2021). Corporate governance and voluntary disclosure of sustainability performance: The case of Jordan. SN Business & Economics.‏, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3947227
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
C A Adams
Internal organisational factors influencing corporate social and ethical reporting: Beyond current theorising
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 250 Posted: 2002
S M Adnan , D Hay , C J Van Staden
The influence of culture and corporate governance on corporate social responsibility disclosure: A cross country analysis
Journal of Cleaner Production , volume 198 , p. 820 - 832 Posted: 2018
B K Agyei-Mensah
The eff ect of audit committee effectiveness and audit quality on corporate voluntary disclosure quality
African Journal of Economic and Management Studies Posted: 2019
H Al Amosh , N Mansor
Disclosure of integrated reporting elements by industrial companies: evidence from Jordan
Journal of Management and Governance , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 121 - 145 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
387
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,182
RANK
175,517
3 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies