Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Reverence for Life Reverence for Rule? Abortion Rate and Corporate Tax Avoidance in China

53 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2021

Kam C. Chan

Western Kentucky University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Jiaxin Wang

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Zhi Wang

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Chao Yan

Independent

Date Written: October 20, 2021

Abstract

Despite the momentum of research on the impact of informal institutions on corporate behavior in recent years, few studies probe the effect of an “awe culture” on corporate behavior. Thus, this study explores the economic consequences of the awe culture. It proxies awe culture with regionally induced abortion rates and examines its influence on corporate tax avoidance in China. We document that higher induced abortion rates associate with a higher degree of corporate tax avoidance, confirming that “reverence for life is reverence for rules.” Further, awe culture influences corporate tax avoidance via management opportunism and risk-appetite channels. The conclusions remained intact after an array of robustness tests. Further analysis suggests that the awe culture effect on corporate tax avoidance is insignificant when senior executives or directors have overseas backgrounds or the proportion of female board members is high. However, the effect is more pronounced when firms have high financial constraints, poor internal governance, or weak taxation enforcement. Notably, given that awe culture shapes corporate behavior, listed firms should fully consider and use awe culture in their economic practices.

Keywords: corporate tax avoidance; abortion rate; informal institutions; awe culture

JEL Classification: G30, H26, M14

Suggested Citation:

Chan, Johnny and Wang, Jiaxin and Wang, Zhi and Yan, Chao, Is Reverence for Life Reverence for Rule? Abortion Rate and Corporate Tax Avoidance in China (October 20, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3947020 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3947020
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
J S Ang , R A Cole , J W Lin
Agency Costs and Ownership Structure
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 2000
D A Carter , B J Simkins , W G Simpson
Corporate Governance, Board Diversity, and Firm Value
Financial Review , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 53 Posted: 2003
Y Chauhan , Jaiswall , V Goyal
Does Societal Trust Affect Corporate Capital Structure
Emerging Market Reviews, forthcoming Posted: 2021
K Chaudhuri , S Roy
Gender Gap in Educational Attainment: Evidence from Rural India , volume 17 , p. 215 - 238 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,106
RANK
441,693
1 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies