Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility Practices of Multinational Companies and Sustainable Development: An Economic Perspective

Khan, N. R., Ghouri, A. M., & Gul, I. (2021). Corporate Social Responsibility Practices of Multinational Companies and Sustainable Development: An Economic Perspective. In Economic Growth and Financial Development (pp. 205-223). Springer, Cham.

Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Arsalan Mujahid Ghouri

London South Bank University

Date Written: October 21, 2021

Abstract

Multinational Companies’ (MNCs) commitment toward Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) practices is gaining attention globally. While the thoughtfulness of MNCs on communal and ecological concerns is increasing since the world is observing environmental damage, decrease in greenhouse gases, exploitation of reserves, and are inclined in poverty. MNCs are considered the key stakeholders to establish policies and activities to deal with these challenges effectively and can play a significant role in the well-being of society where these MNCs are functioning. This connotes the perspective of MNCs as being part of the problem, where at the same time provides a measure of solution through CSR and its implications toward sustainable development. Therefore, the vision of CSR embedding broad objectives of sustainable development, which significantly impact economic progress and establishing communal and environmentally sustainable development concerns. The aim of this chapter is to understand the conception of CSR practices and their contribution to sustainable development through effective utilization of natural reserves by MNCs; it justifies the need of sustainability and environmental change in the society. Therefore, this chapter highlights the crucial connotations of CSR, sustainable development, and its alignment with the agendas of the triple bottom line to achieve the wider impact of CSR.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Multinational Companies, Sustainable Development.

JEL Classification: M1, M14, Q01

Suggested Citation:

Ghouri, Arsalan Mujahid, Corporate Social Responsibility Practices of Multinational Companies and Sustainable Development: An Economic Perspective (October 21, 2021). Khan, N. R., Ghouri, A. M., & Gul, I. (2021). Corporate Social Responsibility Practices of Multinational Companies and Sustainable Development: An Economic Perspective. In Economic Growth and Financial Development (pp. 205-223). Springer, Cham., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3947223
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
493
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies