Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The signalling effect of dividends in Pakistan: executive and analyst perspectives

Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies, Vol. 3 Issue: 1, pp.47 – 64

20 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Naimat Ullah Khan

Cardiff School of Management, Cardiff Metropolitan University UK

Bruce Burton

University of Dundee - Department of Accountancy & Business Finance

D.M. Power

University of Dundee

Date Written: February 22, 2013

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to investigate the views of company executives and investors
regarding the signalling impact of dividends in Pakistan. Quantitative research in the area has been
scant, but recent large sample evidence suggests a number of noteworthy idiosyncrasies exist in terms
of the market reaction and these require further analysis.
Design/methodology/approach – The study involves interviews with 16 financial analysts and
23 company officials regarding the impact of dividends on share prices in Pakistan. Recent work in
the nation suggests that the market reaction to dividends in Pakistan is characterised by
pre-announcement leakage and interaction with the attendant earnings signal – these issues were thus
central to the discussions.
Findings – The results suggest that individual perceptions both support and contradict the earlier
quantitative findings in specific ways. The interviewees, particularly the company executives, were
sceptical about the scope for information leakage to occur in Pakistan. In contrast, the interaction
between earnings and dividend numbers was acknowledged, with – as in the earlier quantitative
studies – the former figure dominating.
Originality/value – This is the first detailed study of perspectives about the impact of dividends on
share prices in Pakistan; for reasons outlined above, this represents a major gap in the literature
regarding firm-market communication. The work follows the publication of the first large-sample
study of share price movements in Pakistan; it thereby allows a pervasive conclusion to be drawn
about the over-riding importance of earnings figures in the nation’s markets and in the attitudes of the
firms listed on them. The study demonstrates the importance of mixed methods research in a
developing market context.

Keywords: Dividends, Signalling, Pakistan, Interviews

JEL Classification: G35, M41

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Naimat Ullah and Burton, Bruce and Power, David M., The signalling effect of dividends in Pakistan: executive and analyst perspectives (February 22, 2013). Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies, Vol. 3 Issue: 1, pp.47 – 64 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3948672
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
H K Baker , G E Powell
How corporate managers view dividend policy
Quarterly Journal of Business and Economics , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 35 Posted: 1999
H K Baker , G E Farrelly , R B Edelman
A survey of management views on dividend policy
Financial Management , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 78 - 84 Posted: 1985
L Bell , T Jenkinson
New evidence of the impact of dividend taxation and on the identity of the marginal investor
Journal of Finance , volume 57 , issue 3 , p. 1321 - 1346 Posted: 2002
S Bhattacharya
Imperfect information, dividend policy and the bird-in-the-hand fallacy
Bell Journal of Economics , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 270 Posted: 1979
Load more
10 Citations
Naimat Ullah Khan , Qurat Ul Ain Shah Jehan , Attaullah Shah
Impact of taxation on dividend policy: Evidence from Pakistan
Research in International Business and Finance, Vol. 42 pp. 365-375 · 11 Pages · Posted: 18 Nov 2021 · Downloads: 127
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Maqsood Ali Shah , Naimat Ullah Khan , Mian Muhammad Atif
Impact of Futures Contracts on Weak Form of Market Efficiency in Pakistan
Iqra Journal of Business & Management, 5(II), 54-64 · 11 Pages · Posted: 16 Feb 2022 · Last revised: 28 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 76
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Naimat Ullah Khan , Bruce Burton , David M. Power
The Share Price Behaviours around Dividend Announcements in Pakistan
British Accounting and Finance Association (BAFA) conference, NewCastle University NewCastle, UK (2013) · 19 Pages · Posted: 3 Jun 2022 · Downloads: 51
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hassan Sardar , Attaullah Shah , Naimat Ullah Khan
Conditional Relationship between Beta and Stock Returns in the Pakistan Stock Exchange
7th Annual EuroMed Conference Kristiansand, Norway September 18-19, 2014 · 18 Pages · Posted: 31 May 2022 · Downloads: 22
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
355
10 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies