Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit quality and earnings management after communicating Key Audit Matters (KAMs) in the UAE – audacity and auditors’ perspectives

Journal of Accounting and Management Information Systems, 20(2), pp. 173-198

26 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Yasser Barghathi

Zayed University - College of Business

Simran Mirani

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Naimat Ullah Khan

Cardiff School of Management, Cardiff Metropolitan University UK

Date Written: June 30, 2021

Abstract

Abstract
Research Question: Does the introduction of Key Audit Matters (KAMs) increase audit quality and reduce agency cost associated with it? Does the introduction of KAMs decrease Earnings Management (EM) and agency cost associated with it?
Motivation: There have been many studies in the past few years testing the impact of KAMs on the quality of the audit and EM in the developed economies like the United States and United Kingdom, however very few studies exist in the context of the UAE. Moreover, many studies on this topic uses quantitative techniques whereas this study employs qualitative method of interview to judge the perception of auditors about the audit quality and EM in the UAE after the introduction of KAMs.
Idea: The research seeks the perception of auditors about the quality of audit and EM after the introduction of communicating KAMs in the UAE.
Data and Tools: A semi-structured interview is conducted with thirteen auditors –six Big-4 and seven Non-Big 4 audit firms.
Findings: The findings show that the introduction of KAMs enhances the quality of audit in the form of better communication and transparency, especially, in big listed firms. It increases the managerial accountability which results in minimizing the agency cost of equity. However, the study also reveals that the auditors have the audacity to confess the pressures from clients and audit firms which lead to the hidden anomalies and EM practices that resulted in decreasing the audit quality, especially in non-Big 4 firms.
Contribution: The research shows that there is no uniformity in audit practice in UAE where own nationals (Emirates) enjoy more flexibility compare to foreigners. In addition, a difference exists in the audit practices of Big-4 and Non-Big 4 auditors. The non-existence of stringent audit regulatory body lead to effect the overall quality of the audit. The government should implement a uniform and robust audit regulatory body to ensure the audit quality.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Earnings Management, Key Audit Matters (KAMs), United Arab Emirates (UAE), Qualitative Research, Interviews, Agency Theory.

JEL Classification: M42, Z23, M41

Suggested Citation:

Barghathi, Yasser and Mirani, Simran and Khan, Naimat Ullah, Audit quality and earnings management after communicating Key Audit Matters (KAMs) in the UAE – audacity and auditors’ perspectives (June 30, 2021). Journal of Accounting and Management Information Systems, 20(2), pp. 173-198 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3948958
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
M Abdullatif , A S Al-Rahahleh
Applying a new audit regulation: reporting key audit matters in Jordan
International Journal of Auditing , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 268 - 291 Posted: 2020
Key audit matters: unlocking the secrets of the audit
ACCA Posted: 2018
A Ali , T H Lee
Malaysia's external auditing: the case of the better tool of analysis
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 3 , issue 9 , p. 99 - 120 Posted: 2008
Y Barghathi , D Collison , L Crawford
Earnings management in Libyan commercial banks: perceptions of stakeholders
International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 123 - 149 Posted: 2017
Load more
2 Citations
Naimat Ullah Khan , Wajid Sultan , Rahman Ullah khan
Financial Pattern of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) of Pakistan
Business & Economic Review, 14(4), 1-23 (2021) · 23 Pages · Posted: 21 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 230
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sajead Mowafaq Alshdaifat , Mohamad Ali Abdul Hamid , Fauzi Saidin , NOOR HIDAYAH
<div> Insight of ISA 701: Key Audit Matter Disclosure in <span>Extended Audit Report </span> </div>
10 Pages · Posted: 29 Oct 2024 · Downloads: 234
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
318
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,173
RANK
217,404
2 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies