Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Political Activism, Information Transparency, and IPO Compliance Costs

Forthcoming: Journal of Business Finance and Accounting

48 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021 Last revised: 6 Feb 2023

Dimitrios Gounopoulos

University of Bath - School of Management

Georgios Loukopoulos

University of Sussex Business School

Panagiotis Loukopoulos

University of Strathclyde - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: October 22, 2021

Abstract

Abstract
Due to their covert and often dubious nature, corporate political activities may encourage or facilitate opportunistic behaviors. Yet, they also subject firms to heightened visibility, which brings greater public and regulatory scrutiny. Using a hand-collected data set of politically connected U.S. IPOs, we investigate how this tension shapes the financial reporting incentives of firms going public and the accompanying direct compliance costs. Consistent with the agency view of corporate political activism (CPA), politically active IPO issuers have worse financial reporting quality, more litigation risk, and eventually pay 28% more accounting fees than their peers. Additional analysis exploiting the U.S. Supreme Court’s landmark ruling on Citizens United vs. Federal Election Commission suggests that the link between CPA and IPO accounting fees is likely to be causal. Finally, our evidence indicates that the involvement of specialized financial intermediaries in the political process has implications for the IPO financial reporting quality.

Keywords: Initial Public Offerings, Political Money Contributions, Corporate Political Activities, IPO Accounting Fees, Audit Pricing, Audit Risk

JEL Classification: G10, G14, G39. M13, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Gounopoulos, Dimitrios and Loukopoulos, Georgios and Loukopoulos, Panagiotis, Corporate Political Activism, Information Transparency, and IPO Compliance Costs (October 22, 2021). Forthcoming: Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3948264 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3948264
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
R Aggarwal , F Meschke , T Y Wang
Corporate Political Donations: Investment of Agency? Business and Politics , volume 14 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 2012
R Albuquerque , Z Lei , J Rocholl , C Zhang
Citizens United vs. FEC and Corporate Political Activism
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 26 Posted: 2020
E Alfonso
Stock Recommendations and Political Connected Firms
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 43 , issue 3-4 , p. 448 - 486 Posted: 2016
M Alhadab , I Clacher
The Impact of Audit Quality on Real and Accrual Earnings Management around IPOs
The British Accounting Review , volume 50 , issue 4 , p. 442 - 461 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
930
RANK
545,411
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies