Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Motivating Unrewarded Task Performance: The Dual Effects of Incentives and an Organizational Value Statement in a Discretionary Task Setting

doi: 10.1111/acfi.12870

28 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2021

Kazeem Akinyele

University of Wisconsin-Oshkosh

Vicky Arnold

NHH Norwegian School of Economics; University of Central Florida

Steve G. Sutton

University of Central Florida; NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Date Written: October 22, 2021

Abstract

Contemporary management accounting research increasingly recognizes the interactive nature of management controls when considered as a package such that informal controls may either sustain or circumvent formal controls. The complexity of these packages of controls is heightened in multiple task settings which are increasingly the norm. Firms develop formal controls, often in the form of incentive contracts, to motivate employees to exert effort on certain tasks that are objectively specifiable and measurable, and to align employees’ interests with those of the organization. Nonetheless, incentive contracts rarely govern all of the employees’ responsibilities as management often cannot foresee all important tasks and effort on some tasks may be difficult or very expensive to measure. Extant research suggests informal controls, implicit structures adopted by management to align employees’ actions with organizational goals, also play an important and complementary role in motivating employee effort. Informal controls that are congruent with formal controls can effectively integrate with financial incentives in a multitask setting to achieve performance objectives, however, informal controls that are not in alignment on a given task may impede the viability of formal controls (Kachelmeier et al., CAR, 2016; Akinyele et al., BRIA, 2020). Frequently, formal controls actually create disincentives for employees to complete discretionary tasks that contribute in aggregate to the efficient and effective functioning of an organization (Organ et al., Organizational Citizenship, 2005). The purpose of this study is to examine how the presence of a value statement (an informal control) alters the effect of differing financial incentives (a formal control) in an environment consisting of both rewarded and unrewarded tasks. Results show that under fixed pay, the presence of a value statement motivates performance on important but unrewarded discretionary tasks. Conversely, under piece-rate compensation, value statements negatively influence performance on unrewarded discretionary tasks. In contemporary work environments where such discretionary tasks are common and important to organizational effectiveness, these results suggest that informal controls can have an important role in performance outcomes.

Keywords: informal management control systems, incentive compensation schemes, organizational value statements, unrewarded task performance, social norm activation, organizational citizenship behavior, discretionary task.

JEL Classification: M14, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Akinyele, Kazeem and Arnold, Vicky and Sutton, Steve G. and Sutton, Steve G., Motivating Unrewarded Task Performance: The Dual Effects of Incentives and an Organizational Value Statement in a Discretionary Task Setting (October 22, 2021). doi: 10.1111/acfi.12870, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3948199
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
M A Abernethy , H C Dekker , A K , -D Schulz
Are employee selection and incentive contracts complements or substitutes
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , p. 633 - 668 Posted: 2015
K Akinyele , V Arnold , S G Sutton
Wording and saliency matter: the impact of incentive systems and organizational value statement on employees' performance
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 32 , p. 101 - 118 Posted: 2020
R H Ashton
Pressure and performance in accounting decision settings: paradoxical effects of incentives, feedback, and justification
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 28 , p. 148 - 180 Posted: 1990
A J Berry , A F Coad , E P Harris , D T Otley , C Stringer
Emerging themes in management control: a review of recent literature
British Accounting Review , volume 41 , p. 2 - 20 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
390
RANK
897,300
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies