Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Views about Dividend Policy in Pakistan

Managerial Finance, Vol. 37 Issue: 10 pp. 953 – 970

20 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Naimat Ullah Khan

Cardiff School of Management, Cardiff Metropolitan University UK

Bruce Burton

University of Dundee - Department of Accountancy & Business Finance

D.M. Power

University of Dundee

Date Written: April 1, 2011

Abstract

Purpose – Very little is known about the influences on dividend decisions in Pakistan, despite the importance of the market in the region and the nation’s non-standard tax system. This study therefore aims to provide detailed evidence regarding this issue by examining the views of those charged with the decisions in practice.

Design/methodology/approach – The study reports the findings from interviews with 23 Pakistani company officials about influences on their firms’ dividend policies. A semi-structured interview document was used to guide the discussions. The interviewees chosen ensure that a wide spread of professional and industrial backgrounds were covered in the study.

Findings – The results suggest that, despite differences in environmental idiosyncrasies, the dividend decision-making process in Pakistani companies is similar in many important respects to that in the USA and other developed markets. However, unlike in earlier studies, the interviewees suggested that past dividends do not influence current dividend levels in Pakistan and respondents were not reluctant to announce news of a dividend cut; instead, firms focus only on current earnings and company liquidity when deciding on a disbursement level.

Originality/value – The study suggests that views about dividends in Pakistan differ from those reported in other markets in a number of important respects. Some, but not all of this evidence relates to the Pakistan taxation system, where until very recently share dividends (as with all capital gains) were tax exempt.


Keywords: Dividends, Pakistan, Signaling, Capital gains tax Interviews

JEL Classification: M41, G35

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Naimat Ullah and Burton, Bruce and Power, David M., Managerial Views about Dividend Policy in Pakistan (April 1, 2011). Managerial Finance, Vol. 37 Issue: 10 pp. 953 – 970, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3948666
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
T Afza , H H Mirza
Ownership structure and cash flows as determinants of corporate dividend policy in Pakistan
International Business Research , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 210 - 221 Posted: 2010
H Ahmed , A Y Javaid
The determinants of dividend policy in Pakistan
International Research Journal of Finance and Economics , volume 29 , p. 110 - 125 Posted: 2009
H K Baker , G E Powell
How corporate managers view dividend policy
Quarterly Journal of Business and Economics , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 35 Posted: 1999
H K Baker , G E Farrelly , R B Edelman
A survey of management views on dividend policy
Financial Management , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 78 - 84 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
363
RANK
826,677
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies