Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Literature Review of Merger and Acquisition on Employee Perspective

Aut Aut Research Journal

6 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

K. Vidyakala

PSGR Krishnammal College for Women

Date Written: October 25, 2021

Abstract

An extensive review of literature reports has been carried out in order to get a good quality observant in the topic of Mergers and Acquisitions. Literature review has been done from books, journal, published national and international papers etc. The issues covered consist of Motives, Financial performance, Work Environment, Job Satisfaction, Employee Morale, Employee Stress. Literature assessment has been collected from each inside India and outside India. Most of the companies studied enhanced work environment and job satisfaction after merger or acquisition. This might be because of decreased cost of operation added approximately with the aid of using economies of scale. The observed out that mergers and acquisition became now no longer the simplest contributor to job satisfaction and other factors also contribute towards increased job satisfaction.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Work Environment, Job Satisfaction, Employee Morale, Employee Stress.

Suggested Citation:

Vidyakala, K., A Literature Review of Merger and Acquisition on Employee Perspective (October 25, 2021). Aut Aut Research Journal, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3949225
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Claudia Sigamoney , &attwarie , Nadir
The Impact of Mergers and Acquisitions on Employee Morale: Engineering Management Journal Posted: 2020
S Hussain , A B Soomro , A Bhutto , S Shah , S S Shaikh
Impacting Factors on the Employees" Performance during Acquisitions: A Study on KASB Bank into Bank Islami Pakistan Ltd
International Business Research , volume 12 , issue 4 Posted: 2019
Deligiannis & Aristos , Sidiropoulos Georgios , &chalikias , Grigorios Miltiadis& Kyriakopoulos
The impact of mergers and acquisitions on corporate culture and employees: The case of Aegean & Olympic Air , p. 17 - 30 Posted: 2018
H Kour , P Kaur
International Journal of Management , volume 8 , issue 516 , p. 516 - 527 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
777
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,175
RANK
73,926
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies