Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost asymmetry and firm value

49 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2021

Mabel D Costa

Durham University

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Date Written: March 10, 2020

Abstract

In this paper we explore the association between asymmetric cost behavior and firm value. Using a large sample of U.S. data, we find a robust negative relationship between cost asymmetry and firm value. We then explore whether the resource adjustment, managerial expectations, and agency theories of asymmetric cost behaviour affect the negative relation, and find support for the managerial expectation and agency theories. Furthermore, we find evidence that the detrimental impact of asymmetric cost behaviour on firm value is mediated partially through the cost of equity and cash flow channels. Further investigation suggests that the detrimental impact of cost asymmetry on firm value is stronger in the presence of high information asymmetry. We enrich the cost management literature by integrating cost asymmetry with corporate finance.

Keywords: Cost stickiness; Firm value, Agency problem; Cost of equity; Cash flow

JEL Classification: M40; M41; G30;

Suggested Citation:

Costa, Mabel D and Habib, Ahsan, Cost asymmetry and firm value (March 10, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3949093 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3949093
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
D Aboody , S Levi , D Weiss
Managerial incentives, options, and cost-structure choices
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 422 - 451 Posted: 2018
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S N Janakiraman
Are selling, general, and administrative costs "sticky"?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
J S Ang , R A Cole , J W Lin
Agency costs and ownership structure
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 2000
M Arellano , O Bover
Another look at the instrumental variable estimation of error-components models
Journal of econometrics , volume 68 , p. 29 - 51 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,080
RANK
292,443
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies