Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Stock Liquidity Shape Voluntary Disclosure? Evidence from the SEC Tick Size Pilot Program

Forthcoming, Review of Accounting Studies

56 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2021

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Junhao Liu

University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 25, 2021

Abstract

Employing the SEC Tick Size Pilot Program that increases the minimum trading unit of a set of randomly selected small-capitalization stocks, we examine whether and how an exogenous change in stock liquidity affects corporate voluntary disclosure. Using difference-in-differences analyses with firm fixed effects, we find that treatment firms respond to the liquidity decline by issuing fewer management earnings forecasts, while in contrast, control firms do not exhibit a significant change. Next, we show that the effect is more pronounced when firms experience more severe liquidity decreases during the TSPP and rule out a set of alternative explanations. Further strengthening the identification, we find a consistent reversal effect after the end of the pilot program. To generalize our findings, we use voluntary 8-K filings and conference calls as alternative voluntary disclosure proxies and find similar effects. Overall, these findings show how an exogenous change in stock liquidity shapes the corporate information environment.

Keywords: Stock liquidity, voluntary disclosure, management guidance, management earnings forecasts, SEC Tick Size Pilot Program

JEL Classification: G10, G14, G18, G30, G38, M10, M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Liu, Junhao, Does Stock Liquidity Shape Voluntary Disclosure? Evidence from the SEC Tick Size Pilot Program (October 25, 2021). Forthcoming, Review of Accounting Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3949799
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
I Abramova , J E Core , A Sutherland
Institutional investor attention and firm disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2020
A S Ahmed , Y Li , N Xu
Tick Size and Financial Reporting Quality in Small-Cap Firms: Evidence from a Natural Experiment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , issue 4 , p. 869 - 914 Posted: 2020
R Albuquerque , S Song , C Yao
The price effects of liquidity shocks: A study of the SEC's tick size experiment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 138 , issue 3 , p. 700 - 724 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
254
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,259
RANK
86,685
12 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies