Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study on Effects of Merger and Acquisition on Employee Morale

Journal of Chengdu University of Technology

Posted: 3 Nov 2021

K. Vidyakala

PSGR Krishnammal College for Women

Date Written: October 25, 2021

Abstract

With a view to the profitability in their businesses, maximum mergers have located their
recognition on financial and political uncertainty, at the same time as ignoring employee morale and
health at some stage in the system of transition. Human capital is frequently unnoticed at some stage in
and after a merger. It is essential to make certain that employee morale is maintained as encouraged
employees make certain productivity that is crucial to the organization’s fulfillment following the merger
and acquisition system. This paper intends to illustrate how employee morale is essential to the fulfillment
of mergers in contemporary-day world. Most mergers or acquisitions bring about dropping key
employees, thereby affecting the newly-fashioned company’s preferred boom strategy. The retention of
key employees is an growing issue of employers. Mergers and acquisitions consequently forget about
employee morale at their personal peril. Generally, businesses that merge or which can be received base
their fulfillment at the functionality of the concerned employees. This guarantees the company’s
fulfillment in its ventures going forward. The right control of employees at some stage in a merger
outcomes in most beneficial productivity. The present research conducted based on primary data related
to Demographic Variables, Personal Satisfaction, Appreciation and Social Status. The primary data
collected with various factors from 70 respondents by using convenient sampling techniques. For this
analysis purpose, the Simple Percentage Analysis ,Anova Techniques applied and the data are analyzed.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Culture, Work Environment, Job Satisfaction, Employee Morale

Suggested Citation:

Vidyakala, K., A Study on Effects of Merger and Acquisition on Employee Morale (October 25, 2021). Journal of Chengdu University of Technology, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3949308
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
862
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies