Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Disclosures and Firm Characteristics: Evidence from the Athens Stock Exchange

Tasios, S., & Bekiaris, M. (2014). Mandatory Disclosures and firm characteristics: Evidence from the Athens Stock Exchange. International Journal of Managerial and Financial Accounting, vol.6, issue 4, pp. 303-321

16 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Stergios Tasios

Independent

Michalis Bekiaris

University of the Aegean

Date Written: October 24, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the association between the extent of mandatory disclosure and eight corporate characteristics: firm size, ownership dispersion, leverage, profitability, liquidity, audit firm size, board independence, and chief executive officer (CEO) duality. For this purpose, a disclosure index comprising 29 mandatory items was developed and applied on a sample of 72 annual reports of non-financial companies listed on the Athens Stock Exchange (ASE). The relationship between the level of disclosure and the above firm characteristics was examined with the use of multiple linear regression. The results showed that the aforementioned companies listed on the ASE present an adequate degree of average compliance with mandatory disclosure requirements. As far as the relationship with firm characteristics is concerned, the level of mandatory disclosure was found to be significantly positively associated with firm size and liquidity and negatively associated with CEO duality.



Keywords: mandatory disclosure, firm characteristics, Athens Stock Exchange

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Tasios, Stergios and Bekiaris, Michalis, Mandatory Disclosures and Firm Characteristics: Evidence from the Athens Stock Exchange (October 24, 2021). Tasios, S., & Bekiaris, M. (2014). Mandatory Disclosures and firm characteristics: Evidence from the Athens Stock Exchange. International Journal of Managerial and Financial Accounting, vol.6, issue 4, pp. 303-321, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3949043
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
O H Abdelsalam , P Weetman
Measuring accounting disclosure in a period of complex changes: the case of Egypt
Advances in International Accounting , volume 20 , p. 75 - 104 Posted: 2007
M Akhtaruddin
Corporate mandatory disclosure practices in Bangladesh
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 40 , p. 399 - 422 Posted: 2005
M Allegrini , G Creco
Corporate boards, audit committees and voluntary disclosure: evidence from Italian listed companies
Journal of Management and Governance , volume 17 , p. 187 - 216 Posted: 2013
K Alsaeed
The association between firm specific characteristics and disclosure, The Case of Saudi Arabia
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 21 , issue 5 , p. 476 - 496 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
339
RANK
841,369
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies