Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
‘Looking for Something That Isn’t There’: A Case Study of an Early Attempt at ESG Integration in Investment Decision Making

forthcoming at European Accounting Review

53 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2021

Anna Young-Ferris

University of Sydney Business School

John Roberts

Univerity of Sydney Business School

Date Written: October 21, 2021

Abstract

The focus of this paper is on the first of the UN-supported Principles for Responsible Investment - ‘We will incorporate ESG issues into investment analysis and decision making’ - the challenges and potentials of which are explored through a case study of an early attempt at ESG ‘integration’ in an equity investment team. The analysis is framed through drawing on literature which views both financial and ESG accounting not as passive representations of independently existing phenomena, but rather as ‘inscriptions’ which are both ‘inherently incomplete’ and ‘performative’. Whilst current regulatory efforts place faith in the development of common ESG disclosure standards to resolve ‘impediments’ to ESG integration, our case points to more fundamental discontinuities between financial and ESG accounting inscriptions that question both its feasibility and adequacy. In relation to feasibility, the case points to the ambiguity of ESG issues in terms of their possible value relevance, to how ESG data quantification and aggregation readily occludes its significance, and to the difficulty of attaching a monetary value to ESG data in either an aggregated or disaggregated form. Consideration of ESG issues is then further constrained by the spatial boundary of the ‘entity’ that financial accounting performs, and the short temporal ‘horizon’ of the financial projections of the entity’s future performance that it enables. We conclude that, whilst increasingly attractive to investors, the UNPRI’s limiting of ESG ‘risks’ to those that are potentially ‘financially material’, may itself be creating a false sense of security both for investors and their clients.

Keywords: Key words accounting inscriptions, ESG integration, ESG ratings, risk, financial materiality, Principles for Responsible Investment, translation.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Young-Ferris, Anna and Roberts, John, ‘Looking for Something That Isn’t There’: A Case Study of an Early Attempt at ESG Integration in Investment Decision Making (October 21, 2021). forthcoming at European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3950851
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
M Y Abolafia
Markets as cultures: an ethnographic approach
The Sociological Review , volume 46 , issue S1 , p. 69 - 85 Posted: 1998
C Adams
The ethical, social and environmental reporting-performance portrayal gap
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 17 , issue I , p. 731 - 757 Posted: 2004
M Alvesson
Beyond neopositivists, romantics, and localists: A reflexive approach to interviews in organizational research , volume 28 , p. 13 - 33 Posted: 2003
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and how investors use ESG information: evidence from a global survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
985
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,290
RANK
53,490
4 Citations
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies