Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility as a Marketing Investment on Firms’ Performance: A Risk-Oriented Approach
Journal of Business Research

47 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2021 Last revised: 29 Nov 2021 Publication Status: Under Review

Mohamed Ibrahim

Modern University for Technology and Information

Mohamed M. El Frargy

Modern University for Technology and Information

Khaled Hussainey

Portsmouth University

Abstract

PurposeIn light of the growing interest in corporate social responsibility (CSR), there is still controversy regarding its impact on firms’ performance. In this paper, we examine the effects of CSR initiatives, as a marketing investment on firms’ performance. Our study provides valuable insights for CSR practitioners and researchers, especially in the banking sector.Findingswe find that CSR implementation is positively reflected in profit efficiency, regardless of the strategic commitment to implementing CSR and firm size, as these variables do not influence the CSR–performance relationship. However,, we find that firm age and competitive positioning have a significant impact on the CSR–performance relationship.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, Profit efficiency, Adjusting stochastic frontier, Banking risk, Egypt

Suggested Citation:

Ibrahim, Mohamed and El Frargy, Mohamed M. and Hussainey, Khaled, The Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility as a Marketing Investment on Firms’ Performance: A Risk-Oriented Approach. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3950085
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
M Acharyya
In measuring the benefits of enterprise risk management in insurance: An integration of economic value-added and balanced scorecard approaches , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2008
M Agudelo , L Jóhannsdóttir , Brynhildur Davídsdóttir , B
A literature review of the history and evolution of corporate social responsibility
International Journal of Corporate Social Responsibility , volume 4 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2019
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
Alexander Gj , R A Buchholz
Corporate social responsibility and stock market performance
Academy of Management Journal , volume 21 , p. 479 - 486 Posted: 1978
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
720
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Specialities
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies