Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance and Success in U.S. Securities-Based Crowdfunding

72 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2021 Last revised: 7 Jul 2023

Douglas J. Cumming

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Sofia Johan

Florida Atlantic University - Finance; University of Vaasa; Tilburg Law and Economics Center (TILEC)

Robert S. Reardon

Elon University - Love School of Business; Florida Atlantic University

Date Written: May 24, 2023

Abstract

We examine the relevance of four governance mechanisms for securities-based crowdfunding campaign success through mitigating pronounced information asymmetries and agency problems. First, unlike IPOs for which the effect of Delaware incorporation has declined or disappeared over time, we propose Delaware incorporation matters a great deal for success in the new setting of securities-based crowdfunding. Second, we propose that the disclosure of two years of financial statement information has an immaterial effect on crowdfunding success due to limited forecasting ability. Third, we propose that the choice of security type is a critical determinant for securities-based crowdfunding success. Last, we propose that platforms as intermediaries between entrepreneurs and investors play an important role in mitigating and sometimes exacerbating information asymmetries and agency problems. The population of securities-based crowdfunding campaigns from market inception in May 2016 to December 2021 in the United States provides strong support for these propositions.

Keywords: Equity Crowdfunding, Governance, Delaware Incorporation, Fintech, COVID-19

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G51

Suggested Citation:

Cumming, Douglas J. and Johan, Sofia A. and Reardon, Robert S., Governance and Success in U.S. Securities-Based Crowdfunding (May 24, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3950966 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3950966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
A Agrawal , C Catalini , A Goldfarb
Crowdfunding: Geography, social networks, and the timing of investment decisions
Journal of Economics & Management Strategy , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 253 - 274 Posted: 2015
G K Ahlers , D Cumming , C Gunther , D Schweizer
Signaling in equity crowdfunding , volume 39 , p. 955 - 998 Posted: 2015
F Allen , X Gu , J Jagtiani
A Survey of Fintech Research and Policy Discussion
Review of Corporate Finance , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 259 - 339 Posted: 2021
D B Audretsch , M C Keilbach , E E Lehmann
Entrepreneurship and economic growth Posted: 2006
Load more
4 Citations
Krzysztof Lorenz , Piotr Gutowski , Ewelina Gutowska , Izabela Rejer
Analysis of the dynamics of social mobilization – crowdfunding and charitable collections in Poland
Procedia Computer Science , volume 246 , p. 3361 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Massimo G. Colombo , Kourosh Shafi
Firms’ venture capital affiliation, platforms’ “skin in the game” and the success of equity crowdfunding campaigns
Journal of Industrial and Business Economics Posted: 2025
Crossref
Douglas Cumming , Robert S. Reardon
COVID-19 and entrepreneurial processes in US equity crowdfunding
Journal of Small Business Management , volume 61 , issue 5 , p. 2326 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Elena Borin , Giulia Fantini
Participatory Governance as a Success Factor in Equity Crowdfunding Campaigns for Cultural Heritage
Journal of Risk and Financial Management , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 172 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
383
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,905
RANK
177,110
4 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies