Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Individualistic CEO and Corporate Innovation: Evidence from U.S. Frontier Culture

64 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2021 Last revised: 13 Jan 2022

Lei Gao

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Jianlei Han

Macquarie University - Faculty of Business and Economics

Zheyao Pan

Macquarie University

Huixuan Zhang

Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University (XJTLU)

Date Written: October 27, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the relationship between CEOs’ individualistic cultural background and corporate innovation among firms in the United States. Using hand-collected data on birthplaces of US-born CEOs, we provide robust evidence that CEOs born in frontier counties with a higher level of individualistic culture promote innovation performance. Firms led by such CEOs increase both quantity and quality of innovation outputs, measured by the number of patents, citation-weighted patents, and the market value of patents, and focus more on breakthrough innovation. Our extended analysis suggests that CEOs with an individualistic background tend to build an innovation-oriented corporate culture and to accumulate human capital by increasing the inflow of inventors, thus promoting corporate innovation.

Keywords: Innovation; Culture; Individualism; Frontier History

JEL Classification: G30; O31; O32; M14; N9

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Lei and Han, Jianlei and Pan, Zheyao and Zhang, Huixuan, Individualistic CEO and Corporate Innovation: Evidence from U.S. Frontier Culture (October 27, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3950964 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3950964
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
B K Adhikari , A Agrawal
Religion, gambling attitudes and corporate innovation
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 37 , p. 229 - 248 Posted: 2016
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell , R Griffith , P Howitt
Competition and innovation: An inverted-U relationship
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , issue 2 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
K R Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
A Bandura
Social foundations of thought and action: A social cognitive theory Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,821
RANK
40,643
13 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies