Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors on Internal Control Quality: Evidence from China

Forthcoming, International Review of Financial Analysis; https://doi.org/10.1016/j.irfa.2021.101916

44 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2021 Last revised: 14 Jun 2025

Zhe Li

Queen Mary University of London - School of Business and Management

Bo Wang

Department of Banking and Finance, Southampton Business School, University of Southampton

Tianlong Wu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Dan Zhou

University of Reading - Henley Business School

Date Written: September 28, 2021

Abstract

This study aims to investigate whether qualified foreign institutional investors (QFIIs) improve companies' internal control quality to mitigate information asymmetry. By analysing a sample of 22,310 firm-year observations from Chinese listed companies between 2005 and 2017, we found that companies with QFIIs exhibit higher internal control quality and fewer internal control deficiencies. In particular, higher QFII ownership is associated with higher quality of internal control. Interestingly, QFIIs from high-governance-quality countries are more likely to improve the internal control system of their investee companies. Finally, the improvement in internal control quality attributed to QFIIs leads to better operating performance. Our results are robust to alternative measures of QFIIs, alternative proxies for internal control quality, and various controls for endogeneity issues.

Keywords: Qualified foreign institutional investors, Internal control quality, Chinese equity markets, Information asymmetry

Suggested Citation:

Li, Zhe and Wang, Bo and Wu, Tianlong and Zhou, Dan, The Influence of Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors on Internal Control Quality: Evidence from China (September 28, 2021). Forthcoming, International Review of Financial Analysis; https://doi.org/10.1016/j.irfa.2021.101916, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3950404
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The Association between Outside Directors, Institutional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
M Arellano , O Bover
Another look at the instrumental variable estimation of errorcomponents models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 51 Posted: 1995
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , J R Kinney , W R Lafond , R
The Effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies on Firm Risk and Cost of Equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6
ABSTRACT VIEWS
458
10 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies