Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate Governance Mechanisms on Earnings Quality – Evidence from Egypt

40 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Abdelmohsen Desoky

UoB

Salah Ali

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 1, 2015

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of a number of corporate governance mechanisms on earnings quality of listed companies on the Egyptian Exchange (EGX) as one of the emerging markets before and after issuing and implementing the Egyptian Code of corporate governance in 2006. To achieve the study’s objectives, the authors used 634 firm-year observations during the period 2003-2010. Four models of ordinary least square regressions were performed to regress six corporate governance variables namely board size, board shareholding, board independence, board leadership, audit committee and external auditor on earnings quality, which was estimated using the modified Jones (1991). We found that four independent variables (board shareholding, board independence, audit committee and external auditor) are significantly associated with the earnings quality, while the others are not. As a main finding, we found that the issuance and implementation of the Egyptian Code of corporate governance decreased the earnings management practices and improved the earnings quality of listed companies on the Egyptian Exchange.

Keywords: Keywords - Corporate governance mechanisms, Egypt, EGX 100, corporate governance practices, earnings quality, and earnings management.

JEL Classification: M40 , M41

Suggested Citation:

Desoky, Abdelmohsen and Ali, Salah, The Impact of Corporate Governance Mechanisms on Earnings Quality – Evidence from Egypt (June 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3950943 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3950943
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
S Abed , A Al-Attar , M Suwaidan
Corporate governance and earnings management: Jordanian evidence , volume 5 , p. 216 - 225 Posted: 2012
M Abulkhair , T
Assess the interference of the report of the annual profit published through the flexible application of the accrual basis of accounting
The Egyptian Journal for Commercial Studies , issue 2 Posted: 1997
M Abulkhair , T
Earnings management in the Egyptian companies: An evidence on changes in the balances of provisions of financial statements
Scientific Journal for Commerce and Finance , issue 3 Posted: 1999
Ali Shah , S Z Butt , S A Hassan , A
Corporate governance and earnings management an empirical evidence form Pakistani listed companies
European Journal of Scientific Research , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 624 - 638 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
942
RANK
521,283
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies