Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Cryptocurrency Value

66 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2021 Last revised: 20 Mar 2023

Yukun Liu

University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Aleh Tsyvinski

Yale University; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Xi Wu

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Date Written: October 27, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the role of the information disclosed on blockchains in the cryptocurrency market. We find that blockchain disclosure on user adoption, measured as the number of new addresses, is highly value-relevant in the cryptocurrency market. Surprises in the disclosed number of new addresses explain 8% of the variation in cryptocurrency returns. The disclosed information is more value-relevant if the quality of the disclosure is higher and the cryptocurrency is larger in size. Unlike traditional markets, we do not find pre- or post-drift around the disclosure of new address information. The presence of strong market reactions at the disclosure and the absence of drifts around it highlight the distinct features of the information environment in this market, and provide a benchmark case where information is disclosed publicly and (almost) continuously. Lastly, we construct the price-to-new address ratios and find that they negatively predict future returns–a cryptocurrency value effect.

Keywords: Cryptocurrency, New Address, Value-Relevance, Return Predictability

JEL Classification: G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Yukun and Tsyvinski, Aleh and Tsyvinski, Aleh and Wu, Xi, Accounting for Cryptocurrency Value (October 27, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3951514 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3951514
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
D Abreu , P Milgrom , D Pearce
Information and timing in repeated partnerships
Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society , p. 1713 - 1733 Posted: 1991
S Adhami , G Giudici , S Martinazzi
Why do businesses go crypto? an empirical analysis of initial coin offerings
Journal of Economics and Business , volume 100 , p. 64 - 75 Posted: 2018
E Amir , Lev B
Value-relevance of nonfinancial information: The wireless communications industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
D Amiram , B N Jørgensen , D Rabetti
Coins for bombs: The predictive ability of on-chain transfers for terrorist attacks
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , p. 427 - 466 Posted: 2022
Load more
4 Citations
Volodymyr Muravskyi , Nataliia Pochynok , Oleh Reveha , Liu Chengyu
Accounting and control of foreign economic electronic transactions using cryptocurrencies
Herald of Economics , issue 4 , p. 44 Posted: 2023
Crossref
İsa KILIÇ , Ahmet ALATAŞ
Kripto Varlıkların Muhasebeleştirilmesi Üzerine Bir İçerik Analizi
Muhasebe ve Vergi Uygulamaları Dergisi , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 157 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Weihao Han , David Newton , Emmanouil Platanakis , Charles Sutcliffe , Xiaoxia Ye
On the (almost) stochastic dominance of cryptocurrency factor portfolios and implications for cryptocurrency asset pricing
European Financial Management Posted: 2023
Crossref
Kseniia Lakovich , Igor Lyukevich , Olesya Lakovich
Digital Transformation on Manufacturing, Infrastructure & Service
, volume 684 , p. 673 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,805
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,607
RANK
10,799
4 Citations
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies