Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Learning to Live Without Form 1040

75 TAX LAW. __ (2022) Forthcoming

Loyola Law School, Los Angeles Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2021-29

38 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2021 Last revised: 21 Dec 2021

Katherine Pratt

Loyola Law School Los Angeles

Date Written: October 1, 2021

Abstract

A prominent tax reform proposal made by Michael Graetz in 2008 would replace much of the federal income tax with a Value Added Tax (VAT), a new consumption tax. If enacted, low-income and middle-income Americans would file 120 million fewer federal income tax returns annually. The Plan would convert the mass income tax into a narrow “class” income tax on high-income Americans. Adoption of the Graetz Plan would promote economic growth and reduce the compliance and administrative costs of the federal tax system. Defenders of the mass income tax nonetheless oppose adoption of the Graetz Plan. This Article argues that the Graetz Plan, modified as proposed in this Article, could overcome two major impediments to adoption of the Plan: (1) the difficulty of reconciling the Graetz Plan and existing multipurpose refundable income tax credits administered by the Internal Revenue Service; and (2) the potential loss of beneficial functions that the mass income tax may serve.

Part I summarizes the relevant portions of the Graetz Plan. Part II provides context for reform of existing refundable income tax credits and critiques the Graetz Plan suggestion to replace existing individual refundable credits primarily with payroll tax cuts. This Article identifies a new development that could facilitate adoption of the Graetz Plan, while simultaneously improving the well-being of low-income Americans. Specifically, the 2021 temporary expansion of the federal Child Tax Credit (CTC) and adoption of an advance payment system signal a bipartisan shift in policy and potentially a shift in public attitudes about making transfer benefit payments to families with children. Replacing most of the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) with an expanded CTC would facilitate administration of the CTC outside the federal income tax system. The remaining, smaller EITC could be replaced with a payroll tax reduction smaller than Graetz assumed. Replacing large, antipoverty and pro-family transfer programs that currently are embedded in the income tax no longer is the Achilles Heel of the Graetz Plan.

Part III responds to arguments that the mass income tax serves various beneficial functions that a class income tax plus a VAT would not serve. This Part explores various functions, some of which are newly identified in this Article, currently served by the mass income tax. Ultimately, this Article concludes that learning to live without the mass income tax could enhance social welfare. Some functions currently served by the mass income tax still could be served—and even improved—in the context of adopting a modified Graetz Plan. Also, one function currently served by the mass income tax, enabling Internal Revenue Service administration of hundreds of tax expenditures (tax subsidies and other targeted tax cuts), has made the federal tax system dysfunctional and should be curtailed, not retained. Adoption of the Graetz Plan could provide a needed catalyst for fundamental tax expenditure reform, which could significantly increase federal revenue and improve the efficiency and fairness of the federal tax system. The net benefits of enacting the Graetz Plan and learning to live without Form 1040 are significant and underappreciated.


Keywords: tax reform; value-added tax; VAT; partial-replacement VAT; Graetz; Competitive Tax Plan; consumption tax; earned income tax credit; child tax credit; child allowance; warm glow; fiscal citizenship; Form 1040

Suggested Citation:

Pratt, Katherine, Learning to Live Without Form 1040 (October 1, 2021). 75 TAX LAW. __ (2022) Forthcoming , Loyola Law School, Los Angeles Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2021-29, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3951580
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Lawrence A See , Melissa C Frolik , Brown
ADVISING THE ELDERLY OR DISABLED CLIENT ¶ 14.03[2], West, Westlaw (noting the "resource eligibility test" for Medicaid eligibility "requires the individual to spend all nonexempt assets until their countable resources are below the amount allowed by the state
E G See , A David , Jacob Weisbach , Nussim
The Integration of Tax and Spending Programs
J , volume 955 Posted: 2004
Eitc Alstott , Limitations
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,014
RANK
596,846
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Loyola Law School Los Angeles Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies