Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Causal Attribution, Benefits Sharing, and Earnings Management

46 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2021 Last revised: 16 Nov 2021

Lukas J. Helikum

Singapore University of Social Sciences

Hun-Tong Tan

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Tu Xu

Renmin University of China - School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 27, 2021

Abstract

We conduct two experiments to examine the joint effect of two justification factors of earnings management, namely attribution for the firm’s underperformance and benefits accruing to other employees from inflating reported earnings. In the main experiment, we predict and find that managers are more likely to manage earnings when the firm’s underperformance is caused by an external event and misreported earnings benefit other employees besides the reporting manager. Further, we show that the extent to which participants use moral justifications mediates the effect of benefits sharing on earnings management, but only when causal attribution is external, and that it mediates the effect of causal attribution on earnings management, but only when benefits are shared. In the second experiment, we use a neutral control condition that makes no mention of causal attribution or benefits sharing to demonstrate that both justification factors jointly increase earnings management relative to what managers normally do in a situation without an explicit mention of either factor. We contribute to the accounting and psychology literature by proposing and testing a theory that explains how multiple justification factors interact to cause opportunistic behavior. Our results have important implications for practice.

Keywords: earnings management, causal attribution, benefits sharing, justifiability, fairness

Suggested Citation:

Helikum, Lukas J. and Tan, Hun-Tong and Xu, Tu, Causal Attribution, Benefits Sharing, and Earnings Management (October 27, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3951261 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3951261
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
S B Anderson , J L Brown , L Hodder , P E Hopkins
The effect of alternative accounting measurement bases on investors' assessments of managers' stewardship. Accounting , volume 46 , p. 100 - 114 Posted: 2015-10
B C Ayers , J Jiang , P E Yeung
Discretionary accruals and earnings management: An analysis of pseudo earnings targets
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 617 - 652 Posted: 2006
S P Baginski , J M Hassell , M D Kimbrough
Why do managers explain their earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2004
A Bandura , C Barbaranelli , G V Caprara , C Pastorelli
Mechanisms of moral disengagement in the exercise of moral agency
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 71 , issue 2 , p. 364 - 374 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,118
RANK
446,506
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies