Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intra-Firm Trust Transfers: The Contagious Impact of Managers’ Perceptions of Organizational Trust on Their Subordinates

48 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2022

Jasmijn C. Bol

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Katlijn Haesebrouck

Maastricht University - Department of Accounting and Information Management

Serena Loftus

Kent State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 27, 2021

Abstract

This paper uses field data from 110 manager-subordinate dyads to investigate whether managers’ perceptions of organizational trustworthiness impact their direct subordinates’ perceptions. Drawing from contagion theory, we further posit that the impact of managers’ perceptions of organizational trustworthiness on their subordinates’ perceptions is negatively related to subordinates’ understanding of the organization’s management control system (MCS). Results indicate that managers’ perceptions of the organization’s trustworthiness are indeed contagious to their direct subordinates and that subordinates’ understanding of the MCS tempers manager-subordinate contagion. Moreover, managers’ perceptions of the organization’s trustworthiness indirectly impact both subordinates’ job satisfaction and retention intentions. By illustrating the contagious effect of managers’ perceptions on subordinate perceptions and behaviors, our study contributes to the literature examining determinants of employees’ organizational trust perceptions.

Keywords: organizational trust, management control system, understanding, contagion

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bol, Jasmijn C. and Haesebrouck, Katlijn and Loftus, Serena, Intra-Firm Trust Transfers: The Contagious Impact of Managers’ Perceptions of Organizational Trust on Their Subordinates (October 27, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3951357 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3951357
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
D G Allen , L M Shore , R W Griffeth
The role of perceived organizational support and supportive human resource practices in the turnover process
Journal of Management , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 118 Posted: 2003
S W Anderson , H F Chang , M M Cheng , Y S Phua
Getting to know you: trust formation in new interfirm relationships and the consequences for investments in management control and the collaboration
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 940 - 965 Posted: 2017
S Ansari
An integrated approach to control system design. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 101 - 112 Posted: 1977
M Arellano
Computing robust standard errors for within-groups estimators
Oxford Bulletin of Economics and Statistics , volume 49 , issue 4 , p. 431 - 434 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
549
RANK
724,439
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies