Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shine a light: How firm responses to announcing earnings restatements changed after Sarbanes–Oxley

Journal of Business Ethics (2019) 160:427–443

17 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Jo-Ellen Pozner

Santa Clara University

Aharon Mohliver

London Business School - Department of Strategy & Entrepreneurship

Celia Moore

Imperial College Business School; Harvard University - Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics

Date Written: June 25, 2018

Abstract

We explore how the Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002 created pressure for firms to take more visible and costly corrective action following the announcement of an earnings restatement. Building on theory about focusing events, the institutional effects of legislative change, and the agenda-setting role of the media, we propose that Sarbanes–Oxley created reactive normative pressure on firms that announce earnings restatements, increasing the likelihood of CEO replacement in their aftermath. We theorize that Sarbanes–Oxley changed the meaning—and therefore the impact—of media coverage of earnings restatements. Our findings show that firm behavior after Sarbanes–Oxley did change in ways that are consistent with the intent of the legislation: to increase executives’ accountability for the reliability of their firms’ financial statements. Moreover, we show this change is a result both of the direct effect of the legislation on increasing CEO accountability as well as through intensifying the effect of the media spotlight on misconduct

Keywords: Earnings Restatements, Legislative change, CEO change, Media, Sarbanes–Oxley

Suggested Citation:

Pozner, Jo-Ellen and Cohen Mohliver, Aharon and Moore, Celia, Shine a light: How firm responses to announcing earnings restatements changed after Sarbanes–Oxley (June 25, 2018). Journal of Business Ethics (2019) 160:427–443, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3951082
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
A Agrawal , J F Jaffe , J M Karpoff
Management turnover and governance changes following the revelation of fraud
Journal of Law & Economics , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 309 - 342 Posted: 1999
R V Aguilera , K Desender , M K Bednar , J H Lee
Connecting the dots: Bringing external corporate governance into the corporate governance puzzle , volume 9 , p. 483 - 573 Posted: 2015
A Akhigbe , R J M J Kudla
Why are some corporate earnings restatements more damaging? Applied Financial Economics , volume 15 , p. 327 - 336 Posted: 2005
M L Arthaud-Day , S T Certo , C M Dalton , D R Dalton
A changing of the guard: Executive and director turnover following corporate financial restatements , volume 49 , p. 1119 - 1136 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
579
RANK
649,230
2 Citations
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies