Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firms’ Stock Prices, Stock Returns, and Remaining Lifetime Earnings

53 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2021 Last revised: 30 Apr 2025

Sanjeev Bhojraj

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Ashish Ochani

SUNY at Binghamton - School of Management; Cornell University, Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management, Department of Accounting

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Date Written: November 18, 2024

Abstract

We document the disconnect between earnings expectations as captured in stock price and the ultimate realization of earnings over long periods. To do so, we compare firms' stock prices on the first trading day and the beginning of each year to the realized earnings over their remaining lifetime (RLTEP ratio). We document that the RLTEP ratio averaged over long periods and over 15,000 US domestic public firms, approximates one, suggesting that expectations match actuals in the aggregate. However, most firms fail to deliver an RLTEP ratio greater than one. Merger acquisition prices are the largest contributors to the RLTEP ratio, with many surviving firms failing to generate enough earnings even after operating for between 15 and 45 years. The RLTEP ratio for survivors is positively associated with the future RLTEP ratio, future lifetime wealth creation, and future lifetime stock returns. Significant returns-based wealth creation by firms in the short term does not persist in the long term unless it is supported by fundamental wealth creation (high past RLTEP ratio).

Keywords: lifetime, earnings, stock returns, wealth creation, mergers, IPOs

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G23, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bhojraj, Sanjeev and Ochani, Ashish and Rajgopal, Shivaram, Firms’ Stock Prices, Stock Returns, and Remaining Lifetime Earnings (November 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3951530 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3951530
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
R Ball , V Nikolaev
On earnings and cash flows as predictors of future cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 73 , issue 1 Posted: 2022
H Bessembinder
Do stocks outperform Treasury bills
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 129 , issue 3 , p. 440 - 457 Posted: 2018
M Carhart
On Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance
Journal of Finance , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 82 Posted: 1997
L Chan , J Karceski , J Lakonishok
The level and persistence of growth rates
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 643 - 684 Posted: 2003
Load more
3 Citations
Anaam Fayyaz , Judy Pozzerle , Suresh J. Antony
A Retrospective Study Comparing Mortality Rates between Vaccinatedand Unvaccinated Kidney Transplant Recipients
Infectious Disorders - Drug Targets , volume 24 , issue 4 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Gerald F. Davis , Theodore DeWitt
Can Strategy Address the Climate Crisis Without Losing its Essence?
Journal of Management Studies , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 1003 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Shivaram Rajgopal , Anup Srivastava , Rong Zhao
Do Digital Technology Firms Earn Excess Profits? Alternative Perspectives
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 4 , p. 321 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,023
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,881
RANK
50,735
3 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies