Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The History and Future of Sustainability Assurance

In Adams, C A (editor), Handbook of Accounting and Sustainability, Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd.

22 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Roger Simnett

Deakin University; UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Shan Zhou

The University of Sydney

Hien Hoang

UNSW Sydney School of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Date Written: October 28, 2021

Abstract

Across all sustainability reporting frameworks there is one consistent claim, that the credibility of the reported information is enhanced if it is independently assured by an assurance expert. In this chapter we first examine the need to rebuild trust and the current fragmentation of sustainability reporting frameworks and consider their impact on credibility enhancing approaches for sustainability information. We trace the evolution of sustainability assurance, including where we are at, how did we get there, and what we know from standard-setting, practice, and research. Possible developments in credibility enhancement of sustainability information are then outlined, including the potential to develop an assurance engagement which covers behaviours, systems as well as the sustainability report, the practice of combined assurance, and providing “examples of evidence”. We conclude by outlining the need for research to provide an evidence base for informed decision-making and explore potential research opportunities under different research approaches.

Keywords: sustainability assurance, trust, new assurance services, assurance practitioner, combined assurance, assurance techniques

Suggested Citation:

Simnett, Roger and Zhou, Shan and Hoang, Hien, The History and Future of Sustainability Assurance (October 28, 2021). In Adams, C A (editor), Handbook of Accounting and Sustainability, Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3951625
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Accountability
AA1000 Assurance Standards v3 Posted: 2021-09
B Ackers , N S Eccles
Mandatory corporate social responsibility assurance practices: The case of King III in South Africa
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 515 - 550 Posted: 2015
C A Adams , P B Druckman , R C ; Picot , Ifac Icas
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGD) Recommendations, published by ACCA
Chartered Accountants ANZ Posted: 2020-09
C A Adams , Chartered Acca , Anz Accountants , Ifac Icas
Sustainable Development Goals Disclosure (SDGD) recommendations: Feedback on the consultation responses Posted: 2020-09
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
449
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,014
RANK
147,479
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies