Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Information Manipulation in the Financial Market

14 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2021 Last revised: 29 Nov 2021

Wang Bo

Zhejiang Gongshang University (ZJGSU)

Zheng Suli

Zhejiang Shuren University - School of Economics and Social Welfare

Abstract

Where does sentiment come from? We answer this question by introducing information manipulation into the financial market. In our model, an insider inflates the fundamental to boost the equilibrium market price. Because the manipulation cost is private information, the speculators treat the manipulation as a noisy signal or sentiment. The manipulation turns out to be a linear combination of fundamental and manipulation cost. The equilibrium level of manipulation decreases with market supply elasticity and transparency.

Keywords: Information Manipulation, Financial Market, Sentiment

Suggested Citation:

Bo, Wang and Suli, Zheng, Public Information Manipulation in the Financial Market. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3952423
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
J Benhabib , X Liu , P Wang
Sentiments, financial markets, and macroeconomic fluctuations
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 120 , issue 2 , p. 420 - 443 Posted: 2016
P Bolton , J Scheinkman , W Xiong
Executive compensation and short-termist behaviour in speculative markets
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 73 , issue 3 , p. 577 - 610 Posted: 2006
C Edmond
Information manipulation, coordination, and regime change', Review of Economic studies , volume 80 , p. 1422 - 1458 Posted: 2013
N Kartik , M Ottaviani , F Squintani
Credulity, lies, and costly talk
Journal of Economic theory , volume 134 , issue 1 , p. 93 - 116 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
550
RANK
747,544
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies