Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulating via Social Media: Deterrence Eﬀects of the SEC's Use of Twitter

86 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2021 Last revised: 13 Dec 2024

Raphael Duguay

Yale School of Management; Center for Interuniversity Research and Analysis on Organization (CIRANO)

Jinjie Lin

Yale School of Management

Jacob K. Thomas

Yale School of Management

Laiyi Yin

Yale School of Management

Date Written: January 2, 2024

Abstract

We evaluate the effect of financial regulators’ social media use on misconduct by regulated entities. We study whether misconduct by firms and investment advisors declines around the staggered launch of Twitter accounts by regional offices of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Even though the tweets repackage information available on the SEC’s website, we find a reduction in opportunistic insider trading and financial misreporting for firms, and a reduction in customer complaints against investment advisers. Consistent with the tweets making enforcement actions more salient and widely disseminated, this deterrence effect is concentrated among (i) regional SEC offices with more Twitter followers and (ii) investment advisers with more retail clients.  In addition, we find Twitter adoption expands press coverage of the SEC’s work and the stock market reacts more strongly to SEC enforcement actions. Taken together, our results suggest that financial regulators’ use of social media, a relatively low-cost intervention, helps deter misconduct.

Keywords: Financial Regulator, Social Media, Corporate Misconduct

JEL Classification: G18, G20, G28, K2

Suggested Citation:

Duguay, Raphael and Lin, Jinjie and Thomas, Jacob and Yin, Laiyi, Regulating via Social Media: Deterrence Eﬀects of the SEC's Use of Twitter (January 2, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3952904
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
S J Ahn , J Jennings , Y Jia
Deterrence or Displacement? Evidence from Insider Trading Activity after SEC Enforcement Actions Posted: 2024
B Auxier , M Anderson
Social Media Use in 2021 Posted: 2021
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-indifferences estimates?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
J M Barrios
Staggeringly problematic: A primer on staggered DiD for accounting researchers Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,041
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,928
RANK
49,503
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies