Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How do Managerial Perceptions of Performance Feedback affect Innovation?

49 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2021

Daniela P. Blettner

Simon Fraser University (SFU) - Beedie School of Business

Date Written: June 1, 2021

Abstract

Although managers’ perceptions are core to the Behavioral Theory of the Firm (BTOF), few empirical studies measure managerial perceptions of their organization’s performance and theorize on the inconsistency between perceptual and objective performance feedback. Based on longitudinal survey data of Canadian organizations, we examine how this inconsistency affects the propensity for innovation in organizations. Our analysis broadly validates that as inconsistency increases between the two types of feedback it dampens innovation. Second, positive perceptions strengthen the relationship between positive objective performance feedback and innovation, leading to increased search, whereas negative perceptions strengthen the relationship between negative performance feedback and innovation, echoing the problemistic search hypotheses. We also find that perceptions moderate the effect of objective performance feedback differently in the social and historical dimensions as well above and below the aspiration thresholds.

Keywords: performance feedback, manager, innovation, Behavioral Theory of the Firm

JEL Classification: M

Suggested Citation:

Blettner, Daniela P., How do Managerial Perceptions of Performance Feedback affect Innovation? (June 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3952146 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3952146
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
R Andrews , G Boyne , G Walker R ; Boyne , K J Meier , J Laurence , O'toole , R M Walker
Subjective and objective measures of organizational performance: An empirical exploration
Public Service Performance: Perspectives on Measurement and Management , p. 14 - 34 Posted: 2006
P G Audia , S Brion
Reluctant to change: Self-enhancing responses to diverging performance measures
Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes , volume 102 , issue 2 , p. 255 - 269 Posted: 2007
P G Audia , S Brion , Greve Hr , G Gavetti , W Ocasio
Self-Enhancement, and the Choice of Comparison Organizations for Evaluating Organizational Performance
Advances in Strategic Management , volume 32 , p. 89 - 118 Posted: 2015
P G Audia , Greve Hr
Less Likely to Fail: Low Performance, Firm Size, and Factory Expansion in the Shipbuilding Industry
Management Science , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 94 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
811
RANK
753,521
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Product Innovation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies