Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Independent Director’s Cash Compensation Matter? Evidence from Corporate Fraud

Alkebsee, R., Tian, G., Alexandros, G., Andreas, K. & Kyriakogkonas, P., 2021. Does Independent directors’ cash compensation Matter? Evidence from Corporate fraud. Journal of Business Economics and Management.

19 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Radwan Alkebsee

Xi'an International Studies Univesrity; Xian Jiaotong University

Gaoliang TIAN

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Alexandros Garefalakis

Hellenic Mediterranean University

Andreas Koutoupis

University of Thessaly

Panagiotis Kyriakogkonas

Hellenic Mediterranean University

Date Written: September 30, 2021

Abstract

This study empirically investigates the relationship between independent directors’ cash compensation and the likelihood of corporate fraud. Using data of 2542 Chinese firms and 17239 firm years from 2010 to 2017, the findings of logistic regression, firm-fixed effects, instrumental variable specification, and propensity score matching models show that there is a negative association between cash compensation of independent directors and corporate fraud. Our findings suggest that if independent directors are treated with higher cash compensation, it enhances the board’s independence and makes the effective monitoring over management behaviors and financial reporting process. On contrary to non-SOEs, we also find the negative association between independent directors’ compensation and corporate fraud is pronounced in SOEs. Our study not only shows the impact of independent director’s compensation on firm fraud beyond agency and contract theories but also creates policy implications regarding independent director’s compensation in particular scenario of emerging economies.

Keywords: [comIndependent Directors’ Cash Compensation; Corporate Fraud; Financial Reporting Quality; non-equity incentives; State ownership; China.ma separated]

JEL Classification: [commM41, M10a separated]

Suggested Citation:

Alkebsee, Radwan and TIAN, Gaoliang and Garefalakis, Alexandros and Koutoupis, Andreas and Kyriakogkonas, Panagiotis, Does Independent Director’s Cash Compensation Matter? Evidence from Corporate Fraud (September 30, 2021). Alkebsee, R., Tian, G., Alexandros, G., Andreas, K. & Kyriakogkonas, P., 2021. Does Independent directors’ cash compensation Matter? Evidence from Corporate fraud. Journal of Business Economics and Management. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3953392 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3953392
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
J Aharony , C.-W J Lee , T J Wong
Financial packaging of IPO firms in China
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 2000
R Alkebsee , A Alhebry , G Tian , A Garefalakis
Audit Committee's Cash Compensation and Earnings Management: The Moderating Effects of Institutional Factors Posted: 2021
J Antonakis , S Bendahan , P Jacquart , R Lalive
On making causal claims: A review and recommendations. The leadership quarterly , volume 21 , p. 1086 - 1120 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
800
RANK
508,348
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies