Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Newspaper Deserts an Oasis for Leniency? The Effect of Information Dissemination on Regulator Activity

51 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2021 Last revised: 3 Oct 2022

Sinja Leonelli

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Date Written: November 1, 2021

Abstract

In this paper, I show that regulators react to a decrease in local information dissemination by decreasing their activity. Specifically, I find that a local newspaper closure decreases the inspection rate in a given county-industry by 8%, compared to the same industry in a neighboring county. I also find that regulators react on the intensive margin by decreasing the extent of inspections and that the effect is stronger when regulators have more discretion over the enforcement activity. A decrease in information dissemination decreases the deterrence effects of inspections, and thus the effectiveness of the regulator's activity. I show that regulators take the effectiveness of their activity into account and react more strongly when newspaper closures have a larger effect on deterrence and are more salient. In addition, I do not find strong evidence for the regulator's response being driven by a change in reputational concerns. Overall, I find robust evidence that regulators decrease their activity after a decrease in information dissemination. My results show that information dissemination can be an integral part of regulators' enforcement choices due to the inherent deterrence effects.

Keywords: Misconduct, enforcement, regulator effectiveness, deterrence, compliance, information dissemination, media, OSHA, regulation

JEL Classification: G18, J28, J81, K32, L51, M48

Suggested Citation:

Leonelli, Sinja, Are Newspaper Deserts an Oasis for Leniency? The Effect of Information Dissemination on Regulator Activity (November 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3953866 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3953866
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
P M Abernathy
The Expanding News Desert Posted: 2018
P M Abernathy
News Deserts and Ghost Newspapers: Will local News survive? Posted: 2020
P M Abernathy
Who is trying to fill the void? Posted: 2022
D Acemoglu , A Wolitzky
Sustaining Cooperation: Community Enforcement versus Specialized Enforcement
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 1078 - 1122 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
697
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,634
RANK
85,079
1 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies