Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Assurance Practices: A Systematic Review and Future Research Agenda

Environmental Science and Pollution Research, 2021

39 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2021 Last revised: 27 Dec 2021

S. A. Hazaea

Yunnan University of Finance and Economics; Al jazeera univerisity

Jinyu Zhu

Yunnan University of Finance and Economics

Saleh F. A. Khatib

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Ayman Hassan Bazhair

Taif University

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Date Written: October 31, 2021

Abstract

Although firms increasingly publish sustainability reports, assuring such reports is relatively new. This study reviews the literature of sustainability assurance to evaluate the intellectual development of the field and provide recommendations for future studies. It also demonstrates the role of assurance to enhance the credibility of sustainability reports and corporate reputation. This paper systematically reviews 94 papers obtained from the Scopus database between 1993 and August 2021. Our study shows that there is an increase in the number of studies published in recent years. We also found that some countries have received limited attention, such as the USA. The scant literature examining sustainability assurance in private institutions and non-profit organisations should be reinforced. Likewise, the sustainability research also provides limited evidence on the governance debate. The vast majority of research is not based on theoretical grounds. The need for assurance of sustainability reports not only enhances the reputation but also adds more value to the organisation’s planning, monitoring, and accountability. We highlight several new research suggestions that may enhance the understanding of sustainability assurance practices.

Keywords: Sustainability assurance; internal audit; external audit; audit committee; environmental assurance; sustainable development; Scopus

Suggested Citation:

Hazaea, Saddam A and Zhu, Jinyu and Khatib, Saleh F. A. and Bazhair, Ayman Hassan and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed, Sustainability Assurance Practices: A Systematic Review and Future Research Agenda (October 31, 2021). Environmental Science and Pollution Research, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3953835
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
153 References
T Abdelfattah , M Elmahgoub , A A Elamer
Female Audit Partners and Extended Audit Reporting: UK Evidence
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 1 Posted: 2020
B Ackers
Corporate Social Responsibility: -an internal audit perspective
Internal Auditor Adviser -Part , volume 2 , p. 14 - 20 Posted: 2011
C A Adams , C Larrinaga-González
Engaging with organisations in pursuit of improved sustainability accounting and performance
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 333 - 355 Posted: 2007
A Adegboye , S Ojeka , O Alabi , U Alo , A Aina
Audit committee characteristics and sustainability performance in Nigerian listed banks , volume 21 , p. 469 - 476 Posted: 2020
Load more
3 Citations
Nicolas Gambetta , Laura Sierra-García , Maria Antonia Garcia Benau
Contagion Effect on Sustainability Reporting Assurance in Latin America
RIBAF-D-23-01047 · 22 Pages · Posted: 10 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 73
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Pei-Chi Kelly Hsiao , Tom Scott , Zeting Zang
A Snapshot of Sustainability Assurance Market in New Zealand
Pacific Accounting Review, 34(5), 669-686 (2022) · 37 Pages · Posted: 27 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 77
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ashiq Ali
Money Talks Green: How Ownership, Financial Performance, and Firm Size Drive Environmental Responsibility in Asian Firms
SFTR-D-24-03802 · 34 Pages · Posted: 13 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 35
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,164
RANK
407,330
3 Citations
153 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies