Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Innovation Considerations in Merger Control and Unilateral Conduct Enforcement

Journal of Antitrust Enforcement, 2020; 8 (1): 56–85

56 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2021

Ioannis Kokkoris

Queen Mary University of London

Date Written: August 7, 2019

Abstract

Non price considerations in merger control and unilateral conduct enforcement have been elements of the competition authorities’ assessment in the last few decades. Recently a revamped emphasis on such factors and in particular on the importance of innovation has characterised the European Commission’s enforcement practice. The paper looks into merger control cases as well as two unilateral conduct cases (Microsoft and Google Shopping) and discusses the approach the European Commission has taken on the impact of concentrations as well as of abusive conducts on innovation. The paper argues that the approach the European Commission takes in assessing innovation in merger control is pragmatic and appropriate for dynamic competition that characterises innovative markets. In relation to the assessment of the harm on innovation in unilateral conduct cases, the paper emphasizes the need for a balanced approach that prevents an adverse impact on innovation incentives of the dominant company while at the same time maintains a robust approach to competition harm induced by abusive conducts.

Keywords: innovation, merger control, unilateral conduct, remedies, fines

JEL Classification: K21, L41

Suggested Citation:

Kokkoris, Ioannis, Innovation Considerations in Merger Control and Unilateral Conduct Enforcement (August 7, 2019). Journal of Antitrust Enforcement, 2020; 8 (1): 56–85, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3954253
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Two cases that this paper will discuss are Microsoft and Google as the relevant markets are very dynamic, innovative and the two cases have frequently been Iacobucci, Tying as quality control : A legal and economic analysis, University of Toronto, Faculty of Law, Law and Economics
abuse of intellectual property rights (Magill 87 ) and vexatious litigation (Promedia 88 ) , volume 86 Posted: 1957
/ A Evans , Jorge Padilla , Dennis W Carlton , Michael Waldman
The antitrust economics of tying: a farewell to per se illegality
The Strategic Use of Tying to Preserve and Create Market Power in Evolving Industries , volume 287 Posted: 2004
José Carbajo , David De Meza , Daniel J Seidmann , J Daniel , Seidmann , R P Mcafee , J Mcmillan , M D Whinston ; Walter , J Adams , Janet L Yellen , L Richard , Schmalensee , A Michael , Salinger
Bundling as a facilitating device: A reinterpretation of leverage theory
The Journal of Industrial Economics , volume 194 Posted: 1976
L J Antitrust , ; K-U Kühn , C Stillman , Caffarra
Economic Theories of Bundling and Their Policy Implication in Abuse Cases: An Assessment in Light of the Microsoft Case
Thomas A. Lampert, Evaluating Bundled Discounts , volume 469 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
601
RANK
481,162
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies