Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global trends in board diversity research: A bibliometric view

Meditari Accountancy Research

34 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Saleh F. A. Khatib

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

DF Abdullah

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Ibrahim Suleiman Yahaya

Azman Hashim International Business School, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Andrews Owusu

University of Derby - Derby Business School

Date Written: November 2, 2021

Abstract

Purpose- This study seeks to identify the main research development on board diversity and offers a quantitative synopsis of key themes and contributors, knowledge gaps, and provides directions for further work.

Design/methodology/approach- Using a bibliometric analysis, we assess the patterns in global board diversity research based on co-occurrences of researchers’ keywords and publication outputs of 991 articles from the Scopus database. Also, the co-citation network analysis was performed to assess the intellectual structure of board diversity research.

Findings- According to the keyword analysis, we found that researchers focus on the gender diversity of the boardroom while ignoring the cognitive diversity and other aspects of demographic diversity such as educational, ethnic, age, nationality, experience, background, and tenure, pointing to the need for further work to consider other diversity attributes and the interaction between them. Additionally, board diversity research related to (but not limited to) payout policy, cash holding, initial public offerings, small-medium enterprises, and financial institutions are limited.

Originality/value- This study provides a comprehensive evaluation of the development of board diversity research (using a large archival database) and identifies the common construct as well as the potential opportunities for future research directions.


Keywords: Gender diversity; Board diversity; Corporate governance; Board composition; Bibliometric literature review

Suggested Citation:

Khatib, Saleh F. A. and Abdullah, Dewi Fariha and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Yahaya, Ibrahim Suleiman and Owusu, Andrews, Global trends in board diversity research: A bibliometric view (November 2, 2021). Meditari Accountancy Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3954945
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
117 References
H A Abdou , N N Ellelly , A A Elamer , K Hussainey , H Yazdifar
Corporate governance and earnings management nexus: Evidence from the UK and Egypt using neural networks
International Journal of Finance & Economics Posted: 2020
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
M Adusei , E Y T Obeng
Board gender diversity and the capital structure of microfinance institutions: A global analysis
Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance , volume 71 , p. 258 - 269 Posted: 2019
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Do some outside directors play a political role
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 179 - 198 Posted: 2001
Load more
2 Citations
Saleh F. A. Khatib , Dewi Fariha Abdullah , Hamzeh Al Amosh , Ayman Hassan Bazhai , Ali Kabara
Shariah Auditing: Analyzing the past to prepare for the future
Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business Research, Vol. ahead-of-print No. ahead-of-print. https://doi.org/10.1108/JIABR-11-2021-0291 · 27 Pages · Posted: 4 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 627
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Eunho Cho , Mohammad Hashemi Joo
Does Board Ethnic Diversity Mitigate Bankruptcy Risk?
JBEF-D-24-00010 · 23 Pages · Posted: 18 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 68
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,185
RANK
240,980
2 Citations
117 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies