Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation Disagreement in Mergers and Acquisitions

62 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2021 Last revised: 18 Oct 2024

Tingting Liu

University of Tennessee, Knoxville; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Tao Shu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Jasmine Wang

University of Virginia

Date Written: October 18, 2024

Abstract

Using a unique setting where target firms engage multiple investment banks as advisors, we develop a novel measure of target valuation disagreement based on discrepancies among the banks’ target valuations. We explore potential explanations for the observed substantial valuation disagreement and its associations with critical M&A outcomes. Our findings indicate that, in the presence of high valuation disagreement, bidders tend to pay significantly higher acquisition premiums. These overpaying bidders exhibit poor merger performance and generate low merger synergies. These results suggest that valuation disagreement arises from errors in estimating target value, supporting the winner’s curse explanation and indicating distortions in resource allocation. Further analyses reveal that the winner’s curse is exacerbated by managerial irrationality and intensified takeover competition.

Keywords: valuation disagreement, mergers and acquisitions, fairness opinion, bidder performance, winner’s curse, managerial irrationality

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Tingting and Shu, Tao and Wang, Jasmine, Valuation Disagreement in Mergers and Acquisitions (October 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3954130 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3954130
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
N Aktas , E De Bodt , R Roll
Negotiations under the threat of an auction
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 98 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 255 Posted: 2010
N Aktas , E De Bodt , H Bollaert , R Roll
CEO narcissism and the takeover process: From private initiation to deal completion
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 137 Posted: 2016
M Baker , J Wurgler
Behavioral corporate finance: An updated survey
Handbook of the Economics of Finance , volume 2 , p. 357 - 424 Posted: 2013
M H Bazerman , W F Samuelson
I won the auction but don't want the prize
Journal of Conflict Resolution , volume 27 , issue 4 , p. 618 - 634 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
463
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,728
RANK
142,252
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies