Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Acquisitions Affect the Mental Health of Employees?

tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper 2021-095/IV

72 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2022

Laurent Bach

ESSEC Business School - Finance Department; Swedish House of Finance

Ramin Baghai

Stockholm School of Economics; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Swedish House of Finance

Marieke Bos

Swedish House of Finance - Stockholm School of Economics; Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam; Consumer Finance Institute, Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia; Tinbergen Institute

Rui Silva

Nova School of Business and Economics; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 29, 2021

Abstract

Using employer-employee level data linked to individual health records, we document that the incidence of stress, anxiety, depression, psychiatric medication usage, and even suicide increase following acquisitions. These effects are prevalent among employees from both targets and acquirers, in weak as well as in growing, profitable firms. Employees who experience negative career developments within the merging firms, 'blue-collar' workers, and employees with lower cognitive and non-cognitive skills are most affected. A variety of tests address endogeneity concerns, including an analysis exploiting failed mergers. Our findings point to mental illness as a significant non-pecuniary cost of acquisitions.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Corporate Restructuring, Mental Health, Mental Illness

JEL Classification: L23, G34, I10, J81

Suggested Citation:

Bach, Laurent and Baghai, Ramin and Bos, Marieke and Silva, Rui, How Do Acquisitions Affect the Mental Health of Employees? (October 29, 2021). tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper 2021-095/IV, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3954887 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3954887
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Kenneth R Ahern , Jarrad Harford
The importance of industry links in merger waves
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 2 , p. 527 - 576 Posted: 2014
Richard Balon
Mood, anxiety, and physical illness: body and mind, or mind and body?
Depression and anxiety , volume 23 , issue 6 , p. 377 - 387 Posted: 2006
Sandra Betton , Karin S Espen Eckbo , Thorburn
Corporate takeovers
Handbook of empirical corporate finance , p. 291 - 429 Posted: 2008
Barbara Biasi , Michael S Dahl , Petra Moser
Career effects of mental health Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,058
RANK
28,985
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies