Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
“Show Me!” The Informativeness of Images

82 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2021 Last revised: 28 May 2025

Azi Ben-Rephael

Rutgers Business School - Rutgers University

Joshua Ronen

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Tavy Ronen

Rutgers University, Newark, School of Business-Newark, Department of Finance & Economics

Mi Zhou

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: November 18, 2021

Abstract

We introduce the concept of visual informativeness in annual reports and innovate by using machine-learning algorithms to construct visual informativeness measures. We create a novel measure of content reinforcement, representing the information content investors can extract from images that complements and reinforces particulars contained in textual narrative. An increase in visual prevalence and in the degree to which images reinforce text is associated with greater (lower) analyst forecast accuracy (dispersion) in subsequent quarters, and lower risk. Firms increase the use of visuals when facing an exogenous drop in analyst coverage. Importantly, visual informativeness facilitates information assimilation.

Keywords: Visual informativeness, annual reports, images, image information content, information dissemination, content reinforcement, analyst forecast accuracy, analyst dispersion

JEL Classification: D83, G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ben-Rephael, Azi and Ronen, Joshua and Ronen, Tavy and Zhou, Mi, “Show Me!” The Informativeness of Images (November 18, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3954219 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3954219
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
109 References
A L Alter , D M Oppenheimer
Uniting the tribes of fluency to form a metacognitive nation
Personality and social psychology review , volume 13 , p. 219 - 235 Posted: 2009
L Ang , A Hellmann , M Kanbaty , S Sood
Emotional and attentional influences of photographs on impression management and financial decision making
Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Finance , volume 27 Posted: 2020
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered differencein-differences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
W J Bazley , H Cronqvist , M Mormann
Visual finance: The pervasive effects of red on investor behavior
Management Science Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
939
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,622
RANK
57,069
4 Citations
109 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies