Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Long-run Performance of Debt Renegotiations: Large-Sample Evidence

Fox School of Business Research Paper

57 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2021 Last revised: 30 May 2025

Zhongnan Xiang

University of Warwick, Warwick Business School

Wei Wang

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 21, 2023

Abstract

Prior research finds mixed evidence on how much loan renegotiations affect equity value. We find that, compared with non-renegotiating firms matched on size, book-to-market, profitability, and investment, renegotiating firms deliver 8.8 (16.7) percent higher stock returns on average over the three (five) years after the renegotiation. This renegotiation effect occurs regardless of the market’s initial reaction, is not driven by reversal of pre-renegotiation returns, remains stable across alternative measures of long-run abnormal stock returns, and continues to hold using bank mergers as a quasi-experiment. Further analysis indicates that renegotiation’s long-run effect is driven primarily by private knowledge-sharing, real options and debt overhang mitigation, while the impact of creditor-driven discipline is more ambiguous.

Keywords: Debt renegotiation, long-run stock return, incomplete contract, real option, knowledge sharing

JEL Classification: G12, G21, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Xiang, Zhongnan and Wang, Wei and Basu, Sudipta, Long-run Performance of Debt Renegotiations: Large-Sample Evidence (September 21, 2023). Fox School of Business Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3955519 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3955519
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
Review of Economic Studies , issue 3 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
P Aghion , M Dewatripont , P Rey
Renegotiation design with unverifiable information
Econometrica , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 257 - 282 Posted: 1994
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
R Ball
The firm as a specialist contracting intermediary: Application to accounting and auditing Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,500
RANK
294,806
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies