Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Internal Audit Quality on Financial Stability

Journal of Commerce and Accounting Research

12 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2021

Suzan Dsouza

American University of the Middle East (AUM)

ajay kumar jain

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 4, 2021

Abstract

The objective of this study is to find out the effect of internal audit quality as an essential tool, for efficient and effective financial management and stability, which fulfills the financial goals of the firm. Due to the increasing importance of internal audit quality and the limited evidence on its impact on financial stability, we have examined the influence of internal audit on the financial aspects of companies. The study has drawn evidence from the data collected through a questionnaire and performing correlation analysis and simple regression on the audit, finance, and banking professionals. The findings assess and suggest a positive relationship between audit quality and financial stability. The research reveals the significant role of internal audit quality on the financials; high audit quality directly impacts the company’s level of financial stability. Based on the findings, awareness among the employees and management has to be maximised so that an understanding of the challenges and impact on financial stability can be assessed by the auditors. The paper will prove to be an essential contribution by providing substantial evidence regarding internal audit quality and financial stability.

Keywords: Internal Audit, Internal Audit Function, Audit Quality, Financial Stability, Audit Impact

Suggested Citation:

Dsouza, Suzan and jain, ajay kumar, Impact of Internal Audit Quality on Financial Stability (October 4, 2021). Journal of Commerce and Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3955993
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
D R Adekola , O A Adewale
Impact of internal audit function and efficiency on organizational performance
International Journal of Accounting Research , volume 3 , issue 6 , p. 15 - 19 Posted: 2018
H Ahmad
Internal audit (IA) effectiveness: Resource-based and institutional perspectives
Australian Journal of Basic and Applied Sciences , volume 9 , issue 9 , p. 95 - 104 Posted: 2015
M I Alfadhli , N M N Bin Nikmohd , R D M N Yaakub
The impact of internal audit and its quality on sales in economic institutions: A case study (Al-Ahlia Cement Company-Libya)
International Journal of Academic Research in Business and Social Sciences , volume 8 , issue 8 , p. 50 - 65 Posted: 2018
K K Amoh
The effects of internal audit quality on financial performance of firms listed at the Nairobi securities exchange (Doctoral dissertation) Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,633
RANK
40,742
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies