Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance, Board/CEO Ties and New Outsider CEO Compensation

40 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2021 Last revised: 14 Oct 2022

Andrew Valentine

UNSW Canberra; Australian Graduate School of Management

Date Written: June 21, 2021

Abstract

The role of directors has become more complex in recent decades with the creation of a new CEO labour market. Directors can potentially utilize their relationships with prospective CEOs to determine new CEO compensation in pursuit of an optimal contract and in the interests of investors. Conversely, new outsider CEOs can potentially be empowered by their relationships with directors to negotiate compensation in their own interests. Drawing on several theoretical perspectives including those of governance, asymmetric information and CEO power this study addresses the role of board/CEO ties in the setting of new outsider CEO compensation. It does so by exploring the impact of board/CEO ties in 1,173 outsider CEO successions on a range of short- and long-term, performance-related CEO compensation ratios across 22 countries. Results show that new outsider CEOs in the United States and other Anglo-American institutional environments can leverage their relationships with directors to restructure compensation in their own interests and against those of investors. These results are consistent with and extend the current understanding of managerial power theory. They illustrate that CEO power to set their own compensation is contextualized and subject to approaches taken to corporate governance in unique national jurisdictional environments.

Keywords: boards, outsider, CEOs, CEO compensation, information asymmetry, CEO power

JEL Classification: D82, J31, J33, J44, M52

Suggested Citation:

Valentine, Andrew, Corporate Governance, Board/CEO Ties and New Outsider CEO Compensation (June 21, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3956313 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3956313
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
F Aguilar
Scanning the business environment Posted: 1967
G A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
K R Andrews
The concept of corporate strategy Posted: 1971
J Angblad , E Berglöf , P Högfeldt , H Svancar , F Barca , M Becht
Ownership and Control in Sweden -Strong Owners, Weak Minorities and Social Control
The control of corporate Europe Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
928
RANK
614,231
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies