Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market reaction and warning mechanism of illegal information disclosure of public companies

16 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2022

Yincong He

Boston University, Questrom School of Business, Mathematical Finance, Students

Alexander Fleiss

Rebellion Research

Date Written: November 4, 2021

Abstract

Information disclosure plays a crucial role in regulating the behavior of public companies and protecting the minority shareholders' interests. An accurate, integrated, timely, and adequate disclosure is a legal obligation for listed companies based on Securities Law of China. However, many listed companies in China intentionally violate the securities laws by providing untrue information, delaying the announcement time, etc. out of their purposes. These can infringe the interest of the minority shareholders but also threaten the health and stability of the Chinese stock
market.

This paper uses companies that violated the information disclosure law as a sample to study the impact of illegal disclosure. It conducts an event study to show the response of the market that follows the punishment announcement. Then, it forms an explanation of the market response. Finally, it develops a general model to predict potential illegal disclosure based of fundamental and corporate governance information. We hope to help investors better understand the mechanism of illegal disclosure and provide a possible way of prediction.

Suggested Citation:

He, Yincong and Fleiss, Alexander, Market reaction and warning mechanism of illegal information disclosure of public companies (November 4, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3956787 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3956787
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate Governance and Accounting Scandals
Hournal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of accounting research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
W S Albrecht , G W Wemz , T L Williams , Fraud
Bring the Light to the Dark Side of Business Posted: 1995
K Bae , J Kang , J Kim
Tunneling or Value Added? Evidence from Mergers by Korean Business Groups
Journal , volume 2 , issue 6 , p. 2695 - 2740
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
905
RANK
490,025
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies