Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Monitoring Quality of Mafia-Connected Accountants

60 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021 Last revised: 26 Jul 2025

Pietro A. Bianchi

Bocconi

Jere R. Francis

University of Missouri

Antonio Marra

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Nicola Pecchiari

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 26, 2025

Abstract

We investigate the monitoring quality of accountants with ties to the Mafia in their role as auditors for “clean” firms—those with no known ties to organized crime. Using a proprietary government database, we identify Italian firms with alleged ties to the Mafia through their executives, directors, or shareholders. We define as “suspect accountants” those who serve as auditors for these Mafia-connected firms, acknowledging their potential associations with criminal entities. We predict and find evidence that suspect accountants allow their “clean” clients (treatment group) greater discretion to engage in earnings management practices that reduce taxable income, compared to a control sample of “clean” firms audited by accountants with no known Mafia ties (control group). Our findings suggest that accountants with ties to the Mafia act as low-quality monitors in the “clean” economy.

Keywords: corrupt accountants; connections to organized crime; criminal investigations; financial reporting quality; earnings management; tax avoidance; accountant criminality, monitoring quality, connections to organized crime, earnings management, tax avoidance, accountant criminality

JEL Classification: G31,G32,G38, K42, K49

Suggested Citation:

Bianchi, Pietro A. and Francis, Jere R. and Marra, Antonio and Pecchiari, Nicola, Monitoring Quality of Mafia-Connected Accountants (July 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3957650 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3957650
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
E Amir , J.-P Kallunki , H Nilsson
The association between individual audit partners' risk preferences and the composition of their client portfolios
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 133 Posted: 2014
M D Amore , O Garofalo , A Minichilli
Gender Interactions Within the Family Firm
Management Science , volume 60 , issue 5 , p. 1083 - 1097 Posted: 2014
P Arlacchi
La mafia imprenditrice. Dalla Calabria al centro dell'inferno Posted: 2007
A Bandura
Social learning theory Posted: 1977
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,306
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,672
RANK
35,648
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies