Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Foreign Institutional Investors Drive Corporate Social Responsibility? Evidence from Listed Firms in China

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting. 2021; 48: 338– 373. https://doi.org/10.1111/jbfa.12481

60 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2021 Last revised: 14 Jun 2025

Zhe Li

Queen Mary University of London - School of Business and Management

Ping Wang

University of Birmingham

Tianlong Wu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 01, 2019

Abstract

This paper investigates the effect of qualified foreign institutional investors (QFIIs) on corporate social responsibility (CSR) within the context of listed firms in China. We find that QFIIs offer an incisive channel for improving socially responsible practices. In addition, we find that firms with QFIIs are more likely to comply with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, and that their sustainability reports tend to be longer. We also find that this positive effect is more pronounced in firms with low initial CSR scores than those with high CSR scores at the time when QFIIs enter the sample. Our empirical evidence further confirms that this positive impact is driven by QFIIs from countries with high social awareness, or QFIIs from geographically distant countries, consistent with their motives, and is linked to the ownership of QFIIs, especially when the QFII is among the top ten of the largest shareholders. Finally, our extended analysis reveals that the increase in CSR performance associated with the presence of QFIIs results in greater firm performance and easier access to finance.

Keywords: Capital market benefits, corporate social responsibility, information asymmetry, qualified foreign institutional investors, social awareness

JEL Classification: G23, G30, M14

Suggested Citation:

Li, Zhe and Wang, Ping and Wu, Tianlong, Do Foreign Institutional Investors Drive Corporate Social Responsibility? Evidence from Listed Firms in China (January 01, 2019). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting. 2021; 48: 338– 373. https://doi.org/10.1111/jbfa.12481, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3957425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
C Barmeyer , U Mayrhofer
The contribution of intercultural management to the success of international mergers and acquisitions: An analysis of the EADS group
International Business Review , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 28 - 38 Posted: 2008
S Bear , N Rahman , C Post
The impact of board diversity and gender composition on corporate social responsibility and firm reputation
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 97 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 221 Posted: 2010
H Ben-Nasr , N Boubakri , J.-C Cosset
Earnings quality in privatized firms: The role of state and foreign owners
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 392 - 416 Posted: 2015
M Benlemlih , M Bitar
Corporate social responsibility and investment efficiency
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 148 , issue 3 , p. 647 - 671 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4
ABSTRACT VIEWS
464
20 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies