Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Flotation Costs of Seasoned Equity Offerings: Does Corporate Social Responsibility Matter?

European Financial Management, Forthcoming, https://doi.org/10.1111/eufm.12327

45 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021 Last revised: 14 Jun 2025

Zhe Li

Queen Mary University of London - School of Business and Management

Ping Wang

University of Birmingham

Abstract

This paper investigates the effect of corporate social responsibility (CSR) on flotation costs in seasoned equity offerings (SEOs). On the basis of an international sample covering 38 countries during the period 2002–2018, we find that CSR performance is negatively associated with SEO flotation costs and this negative impact is mainly attributable to issuers' engagement in CSR, particularly in environmental and social activities. We further reveal that the CSR strategies of SEO issuers are successful in reducing market-based costs as well. Overall, this paper offers critical insights for understanding the role of stakeholder-oriented practices in adding value to shareholders through equity offerings.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, flotation costs, market-based costs, seasoned equity offerings

JEL Classification: D82, G15, G24, M14

Suggested Citation:

Li, Zhe and Wang, Ping, Flotation Costs of Seasoned Equity Offerings: Does Corporate Social Responsibility Matter?. European Financial Management, Forthcoming, https://doi.org/10.1111/eufm.12327, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3957414
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The Association between Outside Directors, Institutional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4949 Posted: 2019
H H An , K C Chan
Credit ratings and IPO pricing
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 14 , issue 5 , p. 584 - 595 Posted: 2008
M Arouri , M Gomes , K Pukthuanthong
Corporate social responsibility and M&A uncertainty
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 56 , p. 176 - 198 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2
ABSTRACT VIEWS
354
3 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies