Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Investigation of Liquidity and Stock Returns Relationship in the Emerging Market During the Covid-19 Outbreak: Evidence from Vietnam

20 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2021 Last revised: 29 Nov 2021

Thanh Cuong Nguyen

Nha Trang University - Faculty of Accounting and Finance

Hai Thanh Phan

Duy Tan University - Faculty of Accounting

Huyen Khanh Nguyen

Nha Trang Tourism College - Department of Academic Affairs, Research and International Relations

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to investigate the relationship between liquidity and stock returns in the Vietnam stock market during the COVID-19 outbreak. This study uses panel-data regression models to evaluate the influence of market liquidity on stock returns of 656 listed non-financial companies in Vietnam. One notable finding in this study is the significant and positive influence of market liquidity on stock returns during the COVID-19 outbreak. Simultaneously, during lockdowns, the impact of market tightness on stock returns was significantly positive and stronger than in the pre-lockdowns. The study also discloses that there exists a significantly positive nexus between market liquidity and stock returns for all sectors, but with varying degrees of influence. In addition, the study also shows that the market liquidity of large market capitalization stocks experiences a significantly more positive effect on returns than small market capitalization stocks.

Keywords: COVID-19 pandemic, Stock Returns, Market Liquidity, Non-Financial Companies, Vietnam

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Thanh Cuong and Phan, Hai Thanh and Nguyen, Huyen Khanh, An Empirical Investigation of Liquidity and Stock Returns Relationship in the Emerging Market During the Covid-19 Outbreak: Evidence from Vietnam. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3958970
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
M Akram
The association between liquidity and stock return: Evidence from Karachi Stock Exchange
Journal of Management Info , p. 52 - 74 Posted: 2014
A M Al-Awadhi , K Alsaifi , A Al-Awadhi , S Alhammadi
Death and contagious infectious diseases: Impact of the COVID-19 virus on stock market returns
Journal of behavioral and experimental finance , volume 27 Posted: 2020
L Alfaro , A Chari , A N Greenland , P K Schott
Aggregate and firm-level stock returns during pandemics Posted: 2020
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,033
RANK
487,089
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies