Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The state of climate change-related risk disclosures and the way forward

Herbohn, K.F., Clarkson, P.M. and Wallis, M. (forthcoming 2022). The State of Climate Change- Related Risk Disclosures and the Way Forward in Adams, C A (editor), Handbook of Accounting and Sustainability, Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd.

30 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2021 Last revised: 10 Nov 2021

Kathleen Herbohn

University of Queensland - Business School

Peter Clarkson

University of Queensland - Business School; Simon Fraser University (SFU) - Beedie School of Business; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Mark Wallis

The University of Queensland

Date Written: September 20, 2021

Abstract

Research suggests that mandated emissions disclosure incentivises firms to reduce emissions by increasing anticipated regulatory and reputational threats, and enables firms to benchmark their own performance. Research also suggests that broader voluntary climate change-related disclosures are valued in capital markets, providing insights into physical and transition risk, which guide more efficient capital allocations. One course of action for regulators is to mandate a broad range of climate-related disclosures to better inform stakeholders. An alternative is for regulators to rely on moral suasion to pressure firms to report on their climate performance. The likelihood of adoption of these alternatives is discussed.

Keywords: GHG emissions disclosure; climate change risk disclosure; TCFD; mandated versus voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: M42,M48

Suggested Citation:

Herbohn, Kath and Clarkson, Peter and Wallis, Mark, The state of climate change-related risk disclosures and the way forward (September 20, 2021). Herbohn, K.F., Clarkson, P.M. and Wallis, M. (forthcoming 2022). The State of Climate Change- Related Risk Disclosures and the Way Forward in Adams, C A (editor), Handbook of Accounting and Sustainability, Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3958452 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3958452
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
W Aerts
On the use of accounting logic as an explanatory category in narrative accounting disclosures' Accounting
, volume 19 , issue 4/5 , p. 337 - 353 Posted: 1994
W Aerts
Inertia in the attributional content of annual accounting narratives
European Accounting Review , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 32 Posted: 2001
G A Akerlof
The market for 'lemons': Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
M S Albarrak , M Elnahass , A Salama
The effect of carbon dissemination on the cost of equity
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 28 , p. 1179 - 1198 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
292
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,134
RANK
238,367
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies