Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Corporate Climate Disclosures: Now, but How?

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 614/2021

Columbia Business Law Review, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2021

John Armour

University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Luca Enriques

Bocconi University - Bocconi Law Department; University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); European Banking Institute

Thom Wetzer

University of Oxford, Faculty of Law; Oxford Sustainable Law Programme

Date Written: November 1, 2021

Abstract

Mitigating the worst consequences of climate change by transitioning to a net zero economy requires investment on a large scale. Directly pricing emissions, the first-best solution to drive capital reallocation, is considered politically infeasible—so policymakers put their currency in facilitating the pricing of climate risk by investors. Yet investors, faced with scientific and policy uncertainty around climate risks compounded by a lack of information about companies’ exposures, struggle to do just that. This essay shows that current disclosure policies do not require companies to disclose the information that investors need to price climate risk, and voluntary frameworks like the TCFD—important as they are—have failed to turn the tide. The result is mispricing and a misallocation of capital, which harms investors and hampers the net zero transition. Against that context, this essay argues that traditional securities regulation rationales and net zero imperatives call for mandatory corporate climate disclosures. To create a yardstick against which governments’ proposals can be evaluated, both to support their efforts and to call out policy greenwashing, it outlines several design principles that go beyond the emerging consensus and cover the regulatory architecture that supports such a disclosure regime.

Keywords: Climate Change, Climate-Related Disclosures, Climate Risks, Voluntary Disclosure, Mandatory Disclosure, Net Zero Transition.

JEL Classification: D62, G14, G18, G32, G38, K22, Q54, Q55, Q58

Suggested Citation:

Armour, John and Enriques, Luca and Wetzer, Thom, Mandatory Corporate Climate Disclosures: Now, but How? (November 1, 2021). European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 614/2021, Columbia Business Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3958819 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3958819
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
PAPERS , volume 878 Posted: 1994
Scott Barrett
Climate Treaties and "Breakthrough" Technologies, 96
AM. ECON. REV , volume 22 Posted: 2006
E G See , David Klenert
Making Carbon Pricing Work for Citizens, 8
NATURE CLIMATE CHANGE , volume 669 , p. 669 - 677 Posted: 2018
Vitor Id , Ian Gaspar , Parry
A Proposal to Scale Up Global Carbon Pricing, IMF Blog Posted: 2021-06-18
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,251
RANK
16,825
7 Citations
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies