Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor-led Sustainability in Corporate Governance

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 615/2021

LawFin Working Paper No. 36

Annals of Corporate Governance, 2022, forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2021 Last revised: 8 Sep 2022

Wolf-Georg Ringe

University of Hamburg - Institute of Law and Economics; University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: November 1, 2021

Abstract

The transition to a sustainable economy currently involves a fundamental transformation of our capital markets. Lawmakers, in an attempt to overcome this challenge, frequently seek to prescribe and regulate how firms may address environmental, social, and governance (ESG) concerns by formulating conduct standards. Deviating from this conceptual starting point, the present paper makes the case for another path towards achieving greater sustainability in capital markets, namely through the empowerment of investors.

This trust in the market itself is grounded in various recent developments both on the supply side and the demand side of financial markets, and also in the increasing tendency of institutional investors to engage in common ownership. The need to build coalitions among different types of asset managers or institutional investors, and to convince fellow investors of a given initiative, can then act as an in-built filter helping to overcome the pursuit of idiosyncratic motives and supporting only those campaigns that are seconded by a majority of investors. In particular, institutionalized investor platforms have emerged over recent years as a force for investor empowerment, serving to coordinate investor campaigns and to share the costs of engagement.

ESG engagement has the potential to become a very powerful driver towards a more sustainability-oriented future. Indeed, I show that investor-led sustainability has many advantages compared to a more prescriptive, regulatory approach where legislatures are in the driver’s seat. For example, a focus on investor-led priorities would follow a more flexible and dynamic pattern rather than complying with inflexible pre-defined criteria. Moreover, investor-promoted assessments are not likely to impair welfare creation in the same way as ill-defined legal standards; they will also not trigger regulatory arbitrage and would avoid deadlock situations in corporate decision-making. Any regulatory activity should then be limited to a facilitative and supportive role.

Keywords: sustainability, ESG, climate change, capital markets, institutional investors, investor coalitions

JEL Classification: G28, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Ringe, Wolf-Georg, Investor-led Sustainability in Corporate Governance (November 1, 2021). European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 615/2021, LawFin Working Paper No. 36, Annals of Corporate Governance, 2022, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3958960 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3958960
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
140 References
social and governance issues in analysis, asset management and securities brokerage Posted: 2004
Investing for Long-Term Value: Integrating environmental, social and governance value drivers in asset management and financial research -A state-of-the-art assessment Posted: 2005-10
The Paris Agreement was agreed between all member states of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) on Dec. 12, 2015 and entered into force on Posted: 2016-11-04
The Swedish 15-year-old who's cutting class to fight the climate crisis, THE GUARDIAN Posted: 2018-09-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,252
RANK
16,769
4 Citations
140 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies