Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Critique on the 'Manager Effects' Research and Implications for Management Accounting Research

Abernethy, M. A. and M. S. Wallis (2019). 'Critique on the 'Manager Effects' Research and Implications for Management Accounting Research.' Journal of Management Accounting Research 31(1): 3-40.

Posted: 26 Jan 2022

Mark Wallis

The University of Queensland

Date Written: July 1, 2019

Abstract

Management accounting researchers have been slow to explore the empirical implications of the “manager effect” on management control choices. We critique the “manager effect” literature and identify research opportunities for management accounting researchers. Since the publication of Bertrand and Schoar's (2003) seminal paper, which shows that individual managers have an effect on firm behavior, a large and growing body of accounting and finance research has used publicly available data to identify individual manager effects on a variety of firm outcomes. Management accounting researchers can add significant value to this research; for example, by exploring the control choices that a firm makes to mitigate the adverse consequences associated with some managerial characteristics. In this critique we first identify some of the theoretical and methodological challenges associated with the “manager effects” research and second identify opportunities for management accounting researchers to explore these effects while overcoming some of the limitations.

Suggested Citation:

Wallis, Mark, Critique on the 'Manager Effects' Research and Implications for Management Accounting Research (July 1, 2019). Abernethy, M. A. and M. S. Wallis (2019). 'Critique on the 'Manager Effects' Research and Implications for Management Accounting Research.' Journal of Management Accounting Research 31(1): 3-40., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3959431
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
211
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies