Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Quality on COVID-19 of European Banks in Half-Year and Year-End Financial Statements 2020

European Banking Institute Working Paper Series 2021 - no. 105

96 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2021

Edgar Loew

Frankfurt School of Finance and Management gGmbH

Michelle Elodie Schröder

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management

Date Written: November 9, 2021

Abstract

In March 2020, Covid-19 was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization. Most European governments reacted with lockdowns. A drop in demand as well as supply disruptions affected the economy which also hit European banks with quite a lot of uncertainty, not only regarding possible future loan losses. Due to the experience of the last financial crisis in 2008 European regulatory bodies and standard setters (like ESMA, EBA, IOSCO or IASB) immediately communicated their expectations on disclosure regarding the pandemic’s impact in order to meet the objective of the IFRS to provide decision-useful information to stakeholders. The majority of these publications was released during the second quarter of 2020 and became available to the banks for the preparation of their half-year reports. As ESMA considers Covid-19 a significant event under IAS 34 a high level of disclosures is required in interim reports.

The aim of the following study is to examine the extent to which banks fulfilled the disclosure expectations communicated by the relevant professional institutions. For this purpose, a disclosure index approach will be applied to half-year reports and annual reports for the year 2020 from European banks. The selection of banks is based on the list of significant entities being directly supervised by the ECB. A totality of 86 annual reports and 67 interim reports are analysed. To a large extent, the sample appropriately reflects the European banking sector seen by the EBA.

48 disclosure items are derived to structure a disclosure index. A dichotomous approach is used to avoid a high degree of subjectivity. Items are grouped thematically, resulting in twelve categories. Therefrom, the category “credit risk”, forms with a total of 13 elements by far the largest category. Furthermore, for comparison reasons a weighted as well as an unweighted index are calculated for each report. Within the weighted index quantitative disclosure elements are being weighted more heavily than qualitative ones.

Seven hypotheses are tested with the following expectations. The disclosure quality in annual reports is higher than in half-year reports. Banks, which have published a half-year report 2020, fulfil the disclosure expectations in their annual reports 2020 to a higher degree. Larger banks provide more information on Covid-19 related topics. Listed banks meet disclosure expectations to a greater extent than unlisted banks. Profitable banks provide more information. The CET1 ratio is positively linked to the level of disclosure. Banks which are more heavily affected by the pandemic fulfil the disclosure requirements to a minor degree than other banks.

It is shown that less than 50 per cent of the expected disclosures of the respective authorities are fulfilled. Only parts of the credit risk disclosure satisfy and there is a lot of room for improvement for the next reporting period. Furthermore, the study provides a deep and detailed insight into the areas and the level of disclosure of European banks.


Keywords: Bank Accounting, Banks, Disclosure, Accounting, Auditing, Covid-19

JEL Classification: G15, G18, G21, G28, H81, K22, K23, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Loew, Edgar and Schröder, Michelle Elodie, Disclosure Quality on COVID-19 of European Banks in Half-Year and Year-End Financial Statements 2020 (November 9, 2021). European Banking Institute Working Paper Series 2021 - no. 105, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3959543 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3959543
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
103 References
Πανεπιστήμιο Πειραιώς / University of Piraeus
Alma Mater Studiorum -Università di Bologna
Academia de Studii Economice din București (ASE)
Goethe-Universität
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
514
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,083
RANK
125,376
1 Citations
103 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies