Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Rating and Financial Performance: A Review Article

27 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Piyapas Tharavanij

Mahidol University

Date Written: December 30, 2019

Abstract

This paper provides the updated reviews on the relationships between a firm’s ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) performance and its financial performance. The survey includes both theories and empirical studies. It addresses three main issues. Firstly, it investigates relationships between ESG and financial performance. Secondly, it examines the effect of firm’s ESG performance on its cost of equity. The effect of each component (E/S/G) is studied. Thirdly, it investigates the effect of ESG performance on a firm’s value. Based on a standard Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model, value creation could come from the cash-flow channel or the cost-of-capital channel. The cash-flow channel can be separated further into short-term profitability and long-term growth.

Keywords: ESG, Environmental Performance, CSR, Corporate Social Responsibility, CSP, Corporate Social Performance, CG, Corporate Governance, cost of equity, valuation, firm’s value

JEL Classification: G11, G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Tharavanij, Piyapas, ESG Rating and Financial Performance: A Review Article (December 30, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3959368 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3959368
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
B R Auer , F Schuhmacher
Do socially (ir)responsible investments pay? New evidence from international ESG data
Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance , volume 59 , p. 51 - 62 Posted: 2016-02
K E Aupperle , A B Carroll , J D Hatfield
An empirical examination of the relationship between corporate social responsibility and profitability
Journal , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 446 - 463 Posted: 1985
P Bansal , I Clelland
Talking trash: legitimacy, impression management and unsystematic risk in the context of the natural environment
Academy of Management Journal , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 93 - 103 Posted: 2004
M L Barnett
Stakeholder Influence Capacity and the Variability of Financial Returns to Corporate Social Responsibility , volume 32 , p. 794 - 816 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,039
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,745
RANK
49,643
2 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies