Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Relaxing Australia’s Statutory Dividend Restrictions

Wallis, M. (2021). The effects of relaxing Australia’s statutory dividend restrictions. Accounting & Finance, 61(2), 3685-3733.

Posted: 28 Dec 2021

Mark Wallis

The University of Queensland

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

This paper investigates the consequences of removing the requirement from Australian corporate law that dividends can only be paid out of retained earnings. Using a difference-indifference design, I find that firms with negative retained earnings and more volatile earnings increased dividends after the law change, consistent with the arguments of proponents of the law change. However, I further find that the law change is associated with a significant increase in cost of debt, decrease in debt maturity, and increased reliance on bank debt. These results are consistent with increased agency costs of debt after the relaxation of dividend restrictions.

Suggested Citation:

Wallis, Mark, The Effects of Relaxing Australia’s Statutory Dividend Restrictions (2021). Wallis, M. (2021). The effects of relaxing Australia’s statutory dividend restrictions. Accounting & Finance, 61(2), 3685-3733., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3959427
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
277
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies