Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Environmental Disclosures of US-Electric Utility Firms: Between Compliance and Voluntary Reporting

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 22(4): 541-570 (2021)

30 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2022

Hani Tadros

Elon University

Mohsen Souissi

Fayetteville State University - School of Business and Economics

Date Written: November 8, 2021

Abstract

Due to its great contribution to environmental pollution, the American utility industry is increasingly under a high level of scrutiny by its stakeholders. Proponents of the legitimacy theory, argue that poor environmental performers are likely to voluntarily disclose more environmental information to legitimize their operations and ‘put a positive spin’ on how they are being perceived. Examining a sample of US utility companies, we seek to revisit the underlying relationship between environmental performance and environmental disclosure and shed the light on key variables that may affect the extent of environmental disclosures.

The study finds that there is no association between utility companies’ environmental disclosures and their environmental performance and that disclosure is equally motivated by economic and legitimacy factors. These factors lead firms toward more compliance with mandatory disclosure requirements in 10K and annual reports but on the contrary, to less voluntary disclosures in their sustainability reports.


Keywords: Environmental Disclosure, Environmental Performance, Content Analysis, Utility Companies, Legitimacy, Voluntary Disclosure

JEL Classification: F64, K32, M41, M48, P18, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Tadros, Hani and Souissi, Mohsen, Determinants of Environmental Disclosures of US-Electric Utility Firms: Between Compliance and Voluntary Reporting (November 8, 2021). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 22(4): 541-570 (2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3959237
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
W Aerts , D Cormier
Media legitimacy and corporate environmental communication. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 34 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2009
K O Alotaibi , K Hussainey
Determinants of CSR disclosure quantity and quality: Evidence from non-financial listed firms in Saudi Arabia
International Journal of Disclosure and Governance , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 364 - 393 Posted: 2016
B Alrazi , C De Villiers , C J Van Staden
The environmental disclosures of the electricity generation industry: A global perspective
Accounting and Business Research , volume 46 , issue 6 , p. 665 - 701 Posted: 2016
S A Al-Tuwaijri , T E Christensen , K E Hughes
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: A simultaneous equations approach. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 29 , issue 5 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
511
RANK
759,678
7 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies