Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Partial Privatization and Improved Corporate Performance – A Reflection on the Efficiencies of Corporate Social Responsibility

Theoretical Inquiries in Law Forum, Vol 13(1), 2013

6 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Eli Bukspan

Reichman University (The Interdisciplinary Center - Herzliya), Radzyner Law School; London School of Economics - Law School

Date Written: November 9, 2021

Abstract

Stavros Gadinis’s article ("Can Company Disclosures Discipline State-Appointed Managers Evidence from Greek Privatizations" 13 Theoretical Inquiries L. 525 (2012)) examines whether disclosure regulations under securities laws serve as an effective monitoring tool available to minority investors in partially privatized companies. However, it seems that his inquiry is not limited to this specific question but rather touches some of the most challenging dilemmas of modern corporate law. As I suggest in this short comment, there are two key quandaries which the article explicitly or implicitly reflects upon, which may be articulated by asking the following questions:
What is corporate law all about? What is the purpose of the corporation in the modern era and what should be its focal points and duties, and those of its officers?

Keywords: Corporate Law, Corporate Social Responsibility

Suggested Citation:

Bukspan, Eli, Partial Privatization and Improved Corporate Performance – A Reflection on the Efficiencies of Corporate Social Responsibility (November 9, 2021). Theoretical Inquiries in Law Forum, Vol 13(1), 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3959459
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
formulating the concept of "shared value
and focusing on the beneficial connection between societal and economic growth Posted: 2011-02
Adolf A Berle
Dodd (who argues for the social responsibility of the company) and Adolf A. Berle (who emphasizes the supremacy of shareholders
Consider in this regard the well-known historical debate between Merrick E Posted: 1931
Adolf A Berle
Note, For Whom Corporate Managers Are Trustees
Harv. l. rev , volume 1365 , p. 1367 - 1368 Posted: 1932
Merrick E Dodd , Jr Joseph , L Weiner , Adolf A Berle
For some more recent articles on this issue, see William T. Allen, Our Schizophrenic Conception of the Business Corporation
14 cardozo l. rev , volume 149 Posted: 1932
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
262
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies