Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does More Effective Director Monitoring Make Management Guidance More Credible?

53 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2021

Tyler Jensen

Iowa State University - Ivy College of Business - Department of Finance

Marlene Plumlee

University of Utah - School of Accounting

Jared I. Wilson

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: November 9, 2021

Abstract

Evidence of the impact of governance on disclosure credibility is inconclusive. Based on a large, post-Regulation Fair Disclosure (Reg-FD) sample, we find that increased director monitoring – through increased director independence and director attention – is associated with more credible management guidance, as evidenced by stronger analyst reactions to the news in management guidance. We document additional cross-sectional differences in the monitoring/credibility link, consistent with monitoring being particularly impactful when the role of external verification is largest (good news forecasts, low analyst following). We are able to identify causal effects through exogenous shocks to monitoring associated with (1) director deaths, (2) mandated independence required by Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX), and (3) changes in director attention due to M&A activities that eliminate board positions at other firms. This finding does not appear to be due to a link between effective monitoring and more accurate guidance, as the stronger analyst reactions occur only when guidance is less accurate. Overall, our findings provide strong support for director monitoring influencing the perceived credibility of management forecasts, especially in settings where external validation is needed.

Keywords: Director monitoring, governance, management guidance, director independence, director attention, analyst forecasts

JEL Classification: M41, G34

Suggested Citation:

Jensen, Tyler and Plumlee, Marlene A. and Wilson, Jared I., Does More Effective Director Monitoring Make Management Guidance More Credible? (November 9, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3960014 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3960014
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
R Adams , B Hermalin , M Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
C Armstrong , J Core , W Guay
Do independent directors cause improvements in firm transparency
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 113 , p. 383 - 403 Posted: 2014
S Baginski , E Conrad , J Hassell
The effects of management forecast precision on equity pricing and the assessment of earnings uncertainty
The Accounting Review , volume 68 , p. 913 - 927 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,054
RANK
416,013
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies