Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Real Effects of Fintech Lending on Smes: Evidence from Loan Applications

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP16684

55 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2021 Last revised: 29 Mar 2022

Afonso Eca

Nova School of Business and Economics

Miguel A. Ferreira

Nova School of Business and Economics; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Melissa Porras Prado

Nova School of Business and Economics; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Antonino Emanuele Rizzo

Nova School of Business and Economics

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 2021

Abstract

We examine the effects of FinTech lending on firm policies using proprietary data on loan applications and loans granted from a peer-to-business platform. We find that FinTech serves high quality and creditworthy small businesses who already have access to bank credit. Firms access FinTech to obtain long-term unsecured loans and reduce their exposure to banks with less liquid assets, stable funds, and capital. We find that firms with access to FinTech loans significantly increase investment, employment, and sales growth relative to firms that get their loan application rejected. We identify these effects by exploiting the number of banks in each a municipality as a source of exogenous variation in the probability of obtaining a FinTech loan. Our findings suggest that FinTech allows firms to improve their financial flexibility and reduce bank dependence.

Keywords: Fintech, Peer-to-Business lending, Small business lending, SMEs

JEL Classification: G21, G23, O33

Suggested Citation:

Eca, Afonso and Ferreira, Miguel Almeida and Porras Prado, Melissa and Rizzo, Antonino Emanuele, The Real Effects of Fintech Lending on Smes: Evidence from Loan Applications (October 2021). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP16684, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3960288
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
30 References
Acharya , V Viral , N Allen , Raluca A Berger , Roman
Lending implications of us bank stress tests: Costs or benefits?
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 34 , p. 58 - 90 Posted: 2018
Manuel Arellano , Stephen Bond
Some tests of specification for panel data: Monte carlo evidence and an application to employment equations
Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 , p. 277 - 297 Posted: 1991
Balyuk , N Tetyana ; Allen , John Berger , Hackney
Financial innovation and borrowers: Evidence from peer-to-peer lending, Working Paper Posted: 2019
Paul Beaumont , Huan Tang , Eric Vansteenberghe
The role of fintech in small business lending Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,577
RANK
29,780
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies