Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Strategy and Performance Measures in CEO Compensation Contracts

Fox School of Business Research Paper

Posted: 14 Nov 2021

Rajiv D. Banker

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Rong Huang

Fudan University - School of Management

Xiaorong Li

Antai College of Economics and Management, Shanghai Jiaotong University

Bo Zhang

School of Business, Renmin University of China

Siqi Zhou

Fudan University, School of Management, Students

Date Written: October 18, 2021

Abstract

In this study, we examine how business strategies affect compensation contracting and performance evaluation. Using textual measures of business strategies derived from corporate 10-K filings, we find that firms adopting the operational excellence strategy place a higher compensation weight on accounting-based performance, while firms adopting the customer intimacy strategy tend to weigh market-based performance more than other firms. The results also show that firms focusing on the product leadership strategy grant more equity-based compensation to CEOs. Focusing on the explicit performance measures disclosed in firms’ proxy statements, we document that companies pursuing the product leadership strategy are more likely to employ learnings and growth performance measures to promote innovation activities, while companies adopting the customer intimacy strategy tend to use customer-based measures to enhance customer relationships. Finally, firms leaning towards the operational excellence strategy are more likely to adopt internal process measures to reduce costs and improve production efficiencies. Our study provides evidence that firms rely on business strategies when designing compensation contracts and selecting performance measures.

Keywords: Business strategy, performance evaluation, product leadership, customer intimacy, operational excellence

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Banker, Rajiv D. and Huang, Rong and Li, Xiaorong and Zhang, Bo and Zhou, Siqi, Business Strategy and Performance Measures in CEO Compensation Contracts (October 18, 2021). Fox School of Business Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3960535
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
677
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies