Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Hard Look at SPAC Projections

Management Science, 68 (6), 4742-4753.

26 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2021 Last revised: 21 Jun 2022

Elizabeth Blankespoor

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business; University of Washington - Department of Accounting

Bradley E. Hendricks

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Kenan-Flagler Business School

Gregory S. Miller

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

DJ Stockbridge

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 1, 2022

Abstract

Firms’ use of SPACs to go public has increased dramatically, leading to market and regulatory debate about their use of projections. Examining SPAC mergers from 2004 through 2021, we find that 80% of firms provide projections for four years ahead on average, with approximately one-quarter of recent projections extending more than five years. For the sample of SPAC mergers with observable post-merger revenue, we find that only 35% of firms meet or beat their projections. This proportion declines for forecasts that are longer horizon, and non-serial SPAC sponsors miss forecasts by greater percentages. When we compare SPAC projected revenue growth to benchmark samples of IPO firms and matched firms, the SPAC projections are approximately 3 times larger on average than benchmark firms’ actual revenue growth, with even greater differences for long-term projections. After the merger, firms reduce their use of projections, providing them at statistically similar rates as benchmark firms. Overall, the evidence supports concerns that the SPAC merger includes highly optimistic projections.

Keywords: SPAC, Projections, Forecasts

JEL Classification: G34, G17, M40

Suggested Citation:

Blankespoor, Elizabeth and Hendricks, Bradley E. and Miller, Gregory S. and Stockbridge, DJ, A Hard Look at SPAC Projections (February 1, 2022). Management Science, 68 (6), 4742-4753., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3961848
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
K D Allee , T E Christensen , B S Graden , K J Merkley
The genesis of voluntary disclosure: An analysis of firms' first earnings guidance
Management Science , volume 67 , issue 3 , p. 1914 - 1938 Posted: 2021
C S Armstrong , A Dávila , G Foster , J R Hand
Biases in multi-year management financial forecasts: Evidence from private venture-backed US companies
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 12 , p. 183 - 215 Posted: 2007
S P Baginski , J M Hassell
Determinants of management forecast precision
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 2 , p. 303 - 312 Posted: 1997
R Berger
SPACs: An alternative wav to access the public markets
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 68 - 75 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,724
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,884
RANK
23,478
19 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies