Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is it Better to Kill Two Birds with One Stone? Internal Control Audit Quality and Audit Cost for Integrated vs. Non-integrated Audits

The Accounting Review, forthcoming.

61 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2021 Last revised: 2 Mar 2022

Joshua L. Gunn

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Chan Li

University of Kansas

Lin Liao

Nanjing Audit Univeristy

Shan Zhou

The University of Sydney

Date Written: 01 March, 2022

Abstract

Audits of internal control over financial reporting (ICFR) are typically “integrated” with the audit of the financial statements (FS)— both audits are conducted by the same audit firm, which designs procedures to satisfy the objectives of both audits simultaneously. A common assumption is that integrating the two audits is more effective and efficient than performing them separately. However, this assumption has not been tested empirically. Using a sample of Chinese companies that employ different audit firms for their FS and ICFR audits (i.e., non-integrated auditors), we find evidence that challenges this assumption. Specifically, we find ICFR audit quality is higher for non-integrated audits compared to integrated audits. Moreover, total audit fees are lower for non-integrated audits, despite higher ICFR audit fees.

Keywords: Audit quality; audit cost; internal control over financial reporting; SOX

Suggested Citation:

Gunn, Joshua L. and Li, Chan and Liao, Lin and Zhou, Shan, Is it Better to Kill Two Birds with One Stone? Internal Control Audit Quality and Audit Cost for Integrated vs. Non-integrated Audits (01 March, 2022). The Accounting Review, forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3961928 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3961928
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
R Aggarwal , M Hu , J Yang
Fraud, market reaction, and role of institutional investors in Chinese listed firms
Journal of Portfolio Management , volume 41 , issue 5 , p. 92 - 109 Posted: 2014
A Akresh
Using the audit risk model to opine on internal control
Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 78 Posted: 2010
S K Asare , B C Fitzgerald , L E Graham , J Joe , E M Negangard , C J Wolfe
Auditors' internal control over financial reporting decisions: Analysis, synthesis, and research directions
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , p. 131 - 166 Posted: 2013
J Barton
Who cares about auditor reputation?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 22 , p. 549 - 586 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
810
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,956
RANK
69,962
9 Citations
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies