Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Profitability of Joint Ventures Abroad: Explaining a New Empirical Puzzle

In F. Contractor, & J. Reuer (Eds.), Frontiers of strategic alliance research: Negotiating, structuring and governing partnerships (pp. 322-336). Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. doi:10.1017/9781108236188.020

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 12 Nov 2021

Benjamin Gomes-Casseres

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mauricio Jenkins

INCAE

Peter Zamborsky

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

We explore empirical patterns in the profitability of foreign affiliates of US multinational companies (MNCs). Historically, affiliates that were organized as 50/50 or minority-owned joint ventures (JVs) have been less profitable than their majority and wholly owned ventures. The latter had roughly a 6 percent return on assets from the 1970s to the 1990s, compared to 4 percent for the joint ventures.
This pattern held across most industries and regions, though the size of this “profitability gap” varied. In the 2000s, this profitability gap narrowed and even reversed itself in some years, regions, and sectors.
To explain these patterns, we propose a simple model based on economics of project finance, classic FDI theory, and a combination of the resource based and transaction-cost theories of the firm.
We argue that both the ownership structure and the profitability of a foreign venture are determined by the resources of the MNCs and of potential host country partners. The profitability gap then shows the revealed competitive advantage of US MNCs vis-à-vis local firms. We consider alternative explanations, which we do not think explain the full pattern observed.
The data and the simple model we build have important implications for further research.
In particular, we call for researchers to revisit the logic of asset bundling in creating value (Hennart, 2009; Gomes-Casseres, 2015), and for them to link this logic more explicitly than has been done so far with the organizational theories that shape governance structures. The schools of thought based on the works of Edith Penrose and of Ronald Coase must be seen to represent two sides of a coin, not competing theories (Teece, 2014). A proper synthesis of these views will help in explaining foreign market entry strategies, effects of government FDI policies, and the distribution of gains between foreign investors and local economies.
The research presented in this chapter is preliminary in that we are continuing to refine our empirical strategy. We do not yet have sufficiently detailed data to support multivariate regression analysis, and so rely here on basic statistics and trends.

Full article (chapter) available at https://doi.org/10.1017/9781108236188.020

Suggested Citation:

Gomes-Casseres, Benjamin and Jenkins, Mauricio and Zamborsky, Peter, Profitability of Joint Ventures Abroad: Explaining a New Empirical Puzzle (2019). In F. Contractor, & J. Reuer (Eds.), Frontiers of strategic alliance research: Negotiating, structuring and governing partnerships (pp. 322-336). Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. doi:10.1017/9781108236188.020 , The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3961736
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
304
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies