Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Anti-subsidy Actions on Corporate Disclosure of Subsidy Information

60 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2021

Ningzhong Li

University of Texas at Dallas

Wenjing Li

Jinan University, School of Management

Youchao Tan

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Cheng (Colin) Zeng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: November 12, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of anti-subsidy investigation and penalty (through countervailing duties) on disclosure of government subsidy information by Chinese listed firms. We find that firms reduce disclosure of subsidy information when their exported products are facing anti-subsidy investigation or charged countervailing duties. The effect is stronger when the countervailing duties are higher, when the affected firms have a higher export revenue from the product under investigation or penalty, when the country taking the anti-subsidy action has a worse relationship with China, and when the affected firms export to more countries. The effect persists into three years after the action and spills over to peer firms that export the investigated products to other countries or export similar products.

Keywords: Government subsidies; Anti-subsidy; Countervailing duties; Corporate disclosure; International trade

JEL Classification: H25; M41; F10

Suggested Citation:

Li, Ningzhong and Li, Wenjing and Tan, Youchao and Zeng, Cheng, The Effect of Anti-subsidy Actions on Corporate Disclosure of Subsidy Information (November 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3961963 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3961963
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
G Ambrocio , I Hasan
Quid pro quo? Political ties and sovereign borrowing
Journal of International Economics , volume 133 Posted: 2021
J Angris , J Pischke
Mostly Harless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
M A Bailey , A Strezhnev , E Voeten
Estimating dynamic state preferences from United Nations voting data
Journal of Conflict Resolution , volume 61 , issue 2 , p. 430 - 456 Posted: 2017
A Beyer , D A Cohen , T Z Lys , B R Walther
The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
362
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,429
RANK
188,511
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies