Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Employees Prefer Conservative Accounting?

47 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2021 Last revised: 17 Nov 2021

Chen Lin

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Thomas Schmid

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Huai Zhang

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Date Written: November 13, 2021

Abstract

We hypothesize that employees prefer conservative accounting. We test our hypothesis, using the setting of the German law on codetermination. The law mandates half of the board seats to be filled by employee representatives if the firm’s number of domestic employees (DE) exceeds the threshold of 2,000. We exploit the discontinuity around the threshold and document a substantial increase in accounting conservatism, when employees gain meaningful influence on accounting policies through their representation on the board. Additionally, we show that the impact of employee board representation on accounting conservatism concentrates in firms with high risks and firms with high information asymmetry. Our findings have implications for academics, managers, and politicians.

Keywords: Employee representation, accounting conservatism

JEL Classification: M41, J01

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Chen and Schmid, Thomas and Zhang, Huai, Do Employees Prefer Conservative Accounting? (November 13, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3962616 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3962616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
A Ahmed , B Billings , R Morton , M Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2008
V Atanasov , B Black
Shock-based causal inference in corporate finance and accounting research
Critical Finance Review , volume 5 , p. 207 - 304 Posted: 2016
R Ball
Infrastructure Requirements for an Economically Efficient System of Public Financial Reporting and Disclosure. Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,194
RANK
345,746
2 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies