Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implementing the New Purpose of the Corporation: The Duty of Directors to Tie Executive Pay to Employees’ Interests

Berkeley Business Law Journal (2023)

70 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2022 Last revised: 26 Mar 2024

Alberto Salazar

Carleton University

Date Written: November 13, 2021

Abstract

The traditional view of executive pay as a financial incentive to enhance firm performance that is often equated with shareholder value maximization has been put into question in the last few years. The rise of the new purpose of the corporation and stakeholder capitalism has put that traditional view under further scrutiny. This work elaborates on a proposed duty of directors to tie executive compensation to improvements in employees’ working conditions as a mechanism to more effectively implement the new purpose of the corporation. Compensation drives directors’ and officers’ conduct and can thus be a strong incentive for adopting pay policies that may be linked to gradual improvements in wages, health and safety in the workplace, productivity, innovation, job security, equality and diversity particularly when shareholder value, firm profitability and executive pay increase. However, shareholders and self-serving directors and officers are unlikely to welcome, if not oppose, such a practice and a legal duty can ensure that directors tie pay to employees’ interests by creating additional incentives, protections and liabilities. While this proposed duty may increase labor cost and reduce shareholder value in the short-term, the evidence suggests that it will improve firm profitability, maximize shareholder value and help build a more stable and sustainable economy and society in the medium and long term. This argument questions Harvard professor Lucian A. Bebchuk’s claim that executive compensation cannot be redesigned to serve the interests of stakeholders such as employees. It also challenges the new corporate rhetoric of the new purpose of the corporation that has not delivered any significant changes notably by the world’s biggest institutional investors such as BlackRock. An effective and wide implementation of a duty to tie executive pay to employees’ interests will need an appropriate metric of employees’ interests; an adequate method of directors’ balancing of multiple stakeholders’ interests; regulatory mechanisms to curb the likely opposition from self-serving directors and officers, influential shareholders and common owners to both employee-friendly practices and favorable legal reforms; the deemphasizing of stock-based executive compensation in order to align pay with employees’ interests; and some mechanisms for employees’ participation in corporate decisions. While this research agenda is beyond the scope of this paper, this work makes a contribution by articulating the merits, desirability and feasibility of a proposed duty to tie executive pay to employees’ interests.

Suggested Citation:

Salazar, Alberto, Implementing the New Purpose of the Corporation: The Duty of Directors to Tie Executive Pay to Employees’ Interests (November 13, 2021). Berkeley Business Law Journal (2023), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3962966 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3962966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Aktiengesetz
BGBl I at 1089, last amended by Gesetz Posted: 1965-08-06
G(i) Para
Principle 24: The Supervisory Board decides on a clear and comprehensible system on the remuneration for the Management Board members and, on this basis, determines the actual remuneration for each Management Board member.... The remuneration structure of listed companies is to be oriented towards the company's sustainable and long-term development. The remuneration of Management Board members shall promote the corporate strategy and support the long-term development of the company
Ger.) (English translation of §G (I) from official convenience translation
G , I
Article 9a Right to vote on the remuneration policy 6. The remuneration policy shall contribute to the company's business strategy and long-term interests and sustainability and shall explain how it does so. It shall be clear and understandable and describe the different components of fixed and variable remuneration, including all bonuses and other benefits in whatever form, which can be awarded to directors and indicate their relative proportion. The remuneration policy shall explain how the pay and employment conditions of employees of the company were taken into account when establishing the remuneration policy
Matthias Regier & Ethan Rouen Posted: 2022
Load more
2 Citations
Lawrence J. Trautman , Scott J. Shackelford , Brian Elzweig , Peter Ormerod
Understanding Cyber Risk: Unpacking and Responding to Cyber Threats Facing the Public and Private Sectors
University of Miami Law Review, Vol. 78, (2024), Northern Illinois University College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper · 78 Pages · Posted: 3 Nov 2022 · Last revised: 30 Oct 2024 · Downloads: 878
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sanzid Haq , Lawrence J. Trautman , Larry D. Foster, II
Timely Thoughts About U.S. Real Estate Markets
46 Pages · Posted: 9 Aug 2023 · Last revised: 26 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 243
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
300
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,708
RANK
232,476
2 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies