Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Quality Transparency and Healthcare Competition

91 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2022 Last revised: 10 Oct 2025

John D. Kepler

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Valeri V. Nikolaev

University of Chicago Booth School of Business

Nicholas Scott-Hearn

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Christopher R. Stewart

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: October 10, 2025

Abstract

Transparency about the quality of goods and services offered by firms improves consumers' decisions; however, it can also change how firms compete for consumers. We study a 2012 mandate requiring U.S. dialysis facilities to disclose quality scores. We find the regulation led to fewer referrals for low-quality incumbents, and new facilities disproportionately entered low-quality markets. We estimate a structural model of patients' demand for dialysis and find that the majority of this entry stems from transparency-induced demand changes. This transparency-induced competition improves patient care, reducing hospitalizations and mortality. Our study highlights how transparency can foster competition and improve healthcare quality.

Note:
Funding Information: We gratefully acknowledge financial support from the University of Chicago Booth School of Business and the Stanford Graduate School of Business, as well as excellent support from the Chicago Booth Healthcare Initiative.

Declaration of Interests: None to declare.


Keywords: Healthcare, dialysis treatment, competition, transparency

JEL Classification: D83, G14, L14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kepler, John and Nikolaev, Valeri V. and Scott-Hearn, Nicholas and Stewart, Christopher R., Quality Transparency and Healthcare Competition (October 10, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3963418 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3963418
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
N Agarwal , I Ashlagi , M A Rees , P Somaini , D Waldinger
Equilibrium allocations under alternative waitlist designs: Evidence from deceased donor kidneys Posted: 2021
Nikhil Agarwal , Paulo J Somaini
Demand analysis under latent choice constraints, Working Paper 29993
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 2022-05
Mohammad Akbarpour , Julien Combe , Yinghua He , Victor Hiller , Robert Shimer , Olivier Tercieux
Unpaired kidney exchange: Overcoming double coincidence of wants without money
The Review of Economic Studies Posted: 2024
Joseph G Altonji , Todd E Elder , Christopher R Taber
Selection on observed and unobserved variables: Assessing the effectiveness of catholic schools
Journal of Political Economy , volume 113 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
817
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,729
RANK
69,065
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies