Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Mandatory Non-Financial Reporting on CSR (And Environmentally Sustainable) Investment: a Discontinuity Design Approach

CEIS Working Paper No. 528, November 2021

29 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2021

Leonardo Becchetti

University of Rome Tor Vergata - Faculty of Economics

Sara Mancini

University of Rome Tor Vergata - Department of Economics and Finance

Nazaria Solferino

Universitas Mercatorum

Date Written: November 15, 2021

Abstract

We investigate the effects of the introduction of non-financial reporting (NFR) on investment related to corporate social responsibility (CSR). We focus on environmental sustainability by using as exogenous treatment the Italian implementation of the EU Directive 2014/95 that has made NFR mandatory for companies of 500 employees and above passing threshold levels of either net sales or total assets. We estimate the causal effect on data from the ISTAT Multiscopo Survey (including the universe of middle and large sized Italian companies and a large sample of small companies) with a fuzzy discontinuity design approach and find evidence of a sharp discontinuity around the cutoff. Our empirical findings show that mandatory NFR is associated to significant positive effects on CSR investments in some crucial domains (waste management, recycle/reused material in inputs, pollution control, emission reduction). Their magnitude implies that between 20 to 30 percent of additional firms are involved in CSR investments in general and specifically in all the considered types of environmentally sustainable investment. Policy implications of our findings are that the reduction of the mandatory NFR threshold including also medium sized firms could significantly contribute to extend corporate investment in CSR and, more specifically, in environmental sustainability.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Non-financial Reporting, Environmental Sustainability

JEL Classification: D25, D22

Suggested Citation:

Becchetti, Leonardo and Mancini, Sara and Solferino, Nazaria, The Effect of Mandatory Non-Financial Reporting on CSR (And Environmentally Sustainable) Investment: a Discontinuity Design Approach (November 15, 2021). CEIS Working Paper No. 528, November 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3963923 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3963923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
A R Belal , S M Cooper , R W Roberts
Vulnerable and exploitable: The need for organisational accountability and transparency in emerging and less developed economies
Accounting Forum , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 81 - 91 Posted: 2013
L Becchetti , R Ciciretti , A Dalò
Fishing the corporate social responsibility risk factors
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 37 , p. 25 - 48 Posted: 2018
C Bernardi , A Stark
On the value relevance of information on environmental and social activities and performance -Some evidence from the UK stock market
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 37 , issue 4 , p. 282 - 299 Posted: 2018
C H Cho
CSR accounting 'new wave' researchers: 'step up to the plate'… or 'stay out of the game
Accounting and Management Information Systems , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 626 - 650 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,030
RANK
307,529
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEIS: Centre for Economic & International Studies Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies