Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Analysis of Real Earnings Management and Accrual-based Earnings Management before and after Convergence of IFRSs in Indonesia

International Journal of Academic Research in Business and Social Sciences

14 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Daniel Mas

Syiah Kuala University - Faculty of Economics and Business

Date Written: January 5, 2018

Abstract

This study aims to test and analyze real earnings management through cash flow from operations, production costs and discretionary expenses as well as accrual-based earnings management in the period before and after convergence of IFRSs. In this study using the financial statements of 83 manufacturing companies in Indonesia Stock Exchange. In the period before convergence of IFRSs used the financial statements of 2009, 2010 & 2011 and in the period after convergence of IFRSs used the financial statements of 2014, 2015 & 2016. The results show evidence of a decline in real earnings management through cash flow from operations, production costs and discretionary expenses as well as accrual-based earnings management after convergence of IFRSs. Another result shows that decline of total real earnings management is greater than decline of accrual-based earnings management after convergence of IFRSs.

Keywords: : IFRSs, real earnings management, accrual-based earnings management

Suggested Citation:

Mas, Daniel, Comparative Analysis of Real Earnings Management and Accrual-based Earnings Management before and after Convergence of IFRSs in Indonesia (January 5, 2018). International Journal of Academic Research in Business and Social Sciences, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3964272 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3964272
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
M Baiga , S A Khan
Impact of IFRS on Earnings Management: Comparison of Pre-Post IFRS Era in Pakistan , volume 230 , p. 343 - 350 Posted: 2016
G Braam , M Nandy , U Weitzel , S Lodh
Accrual-based and Real Earnings Management and Political Connections
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 50 , p. 111 - 141 Posted: 2015
L Brad , F Dobre , C Turlea , I V Brasoveanu
The Impact of IFRS Adoption in Romania upon The Earnings Management of The Bucharest Stock Exchange Entities
Procedia Economics and Finance , volume 15 , p. 871 - 876 Posted: 2014
D A Cohen , A Dey , T Z Lys
Real and Accrual-Based Earnings Management in The Pre-and postSarbanes-Oxley Periods
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 757 - 787 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
621
RANK
708,207
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies