Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Information Asymmetry in Closely-held Firms’ Tax and Financial Reporting Choice

Fan, H., Mawani, A., and Chen, L. “The Role of Information Asymmetry in Closely-held Firms’ Tax and Financial Reporting Choice” Accounting and Business Research, https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/00014788.2021.1986366

Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Amin Mawani

York University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: November 16, 2021

Abstract

This study examines whether and how closely-held ownership is associated with the relationship between tax and financial reporting aggressiveness. More specifically, we find that although both closely-held and widely-held firms pursue tax savings and higher reported earnings, closely-held firms are less aggressive compared to widely-held firms in pursuing both simultaneously. We argue and find evidence that this is associated with non-controlling shareholders and controlling shareholders concerned about agency costs imposed by each on the other. Furthermore, this finding is driven mainly by firms with high information asymmetry (as proxied by firm size, analyst following and board size), suggesting that information asymmetry is a channel through which closely-held ownership is associated with firms’ tax and financial reporting choices

Keywords: tax aggressiveness, financial reporting aggressiveness, closely-held firms

Suggested Citation:

Mawani, Amin, The Role of Information Asymmetry in Closely-held Firms’ Tax and Financial Reporting Choice (November 16, 2021). Fan, H., Mawani, A., and Chen, L. “The Role of Information Asymmetry in Closely-held Firms’ Tax and Financial Reporting Choice” Accounting and Business Research, https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/00014788.2021.1986366 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3964836
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
276
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies