Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Costs of Public Auditor Oversight: Real Earnings Management and Innovation Loss

53 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2022

Phillip T. Lamoreaux

Arizona State University

Noah Myers

Utah Valley University

Mason C. Snow

Utah Valley University

Date Written: November 16, 2021

Abstract

Prior research documents positive effects of PCAOB oversight on reporting and audit quality. However, to gain a clear understanding of the net benefits of regulation, it is important to also investigate corresponding costs. To this end, we investigate the relation between PCAOB inspection oversight and real earnings management (REM), a potentially value-destroying activity. We exploit the staggered timing of foreign governments’ allowance of PCAOB inspections in a generalized difference-in-differences design and find that companies engage in greater REM during periods of PCAOB inspection oversight. This relation is stronger for companies with a reduced ability to manage earnings via accruals. We also find that firms are more likely to meet earnings benchmarks through the use of REM subsequent to PCAOB oversight. Lastly, we find a negative association between PCAOB oversight and firm innovation. Collectively, our findings highlight a trade-off between improved audit quality and real costs of auditor regulatory oversight.

Keywords: Audit regulation, earnings management, PCAOB inspections, real earnings management, innovation

JEL Classification: G38, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Lamoreaux, Phillip T. and Myers, Noah and Snow, Mason C., Costs of Public Auditor Oversight: Real Earnings Management and Innovation Loss (November 16, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3964886 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3964886
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
D Aobdia
The Impact of the PCAOB Individual Engagement Inspection Process-Preliminary Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia , N Shroff
Regulatory oversight and auditor market share
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 63 , issue 2 , p. 262 - 287 Posted: 2017
Load more
5 Citations
Mohammad Javad Saei , Reza Hesarzadeh , Naser Makarem , Saher Aqel
Audit committee financial expertise, audit committee independence, and regulatory oversight on external auditors
Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting / Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad , volume 52 , issue 4 , p. 593 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Matthew Ege , Allison Nicoletti , Sarah B. Stuber
Auditor Scrutiny of Loan Loss Estimates and Bank Lending: Evidence from PCAOB Inspections
The Accounting Review , volume 100 , issue 4 , p. 221 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Ahsan Habib , Dinithi Ranasinghe , Julia Yonghua Wu , Pallab Kumar Biswas , Fawad Ahmad
Real earnings management: A review of the international literature
Accounting & Finance , volume 62 , issue 4 , p. 4279 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Heng Geng , Cheng Zhang , Frank S. Zhou
Financial Reporting Quality and Myopic Investments: Theory and Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 6 , p. 223 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
409
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,560
RANK
164,283
5 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies