Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Product Similarity of Audit Clients Influence Audit Efficiency and Pricing Decisions?

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021 Last revised: 6 Dec 2021

Hsihui Chang

Drexel University

Charles Hsu

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Zhiming Ma

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Date Written: November 1, 2021

Abstract

We examine how client product similarity within an auditor’s portfolio affects audit efficiency and pricing decisions. Using a unique set of intra-portfolio client-level data, we find that clients with product offerings more similar to those of other clients in the auditor’s portfolio are charged lower audit fees and experience a shorter audit reporting lag, suggesting that product similarity contributes to audit efficiency. In a cross-sectional analysis, we also find that the effect of product similarity on fee reduction is greater when knowledge transfer across clients is more useful in improving audit efficiency. Finally, we find that industry specialists reduce fee premiums for clients whose products are more similar to those of other clients in their portfolios, consistent with the conjecture that client product similarity helps specialists build up their market positions while improving their audit efficiency.

Keywords: product similarity, audit efficiency, audit pricing, client portfolio, knowledge transfer, industry specialists

JEL Classification: D20, D40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Hsihui and Hsu, Charles and Ma, Zhiming, Does Product Similarity of Audit Clients Influence Audit Efficiency and Pricing Decisions? (November 1, 2021). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3965346
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
D Aobdia
Proprietary information spillovers and supplier choice: Evidence from auditors
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1504 - 1539 Posted: 2015
E M Bamber , L S Bamber , M P Schoderbek
Audit structure and other determinants of audit report lag: An empirical analysis
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 12 , issue Spring , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 1993
R Bhushan
Firm characteristics and analyst following
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 11 , p. 255 - 274 Posted: 1989
K L Bills , D C Jeter , S E Stein
Auditor industry specialization and evidence of cost efficiencies in homogenous industries
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 5 , p. 1721 - 1754 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
574
RANK
514,660
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies