Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Auditing & Risk Management, No. 2(62)

Internal Auditing & Risk Management

58 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Emilia Vasile

Universitatea Athenaeum

Dănuţ-Octavian Simion

Universitatea Athenaeum

Brînduşa-Mihaela Radu

Universitatea Athenaeum

Dalina Andrei

Romanian Academy - Institute for Economic Forecasting

Ion Croitoru

University of Bucharest

Date Written: June 30, 2021

Abstract

The financial-accounting activity represents the instrument within the public entity, with the help of which the patrimony of the public entity is managed economically, financially and. This activity records transactions and operations related to the establishment and use of public resources. The recording of operations in the entity’s primary and accounting records complies with certain principles, rules and regulations, both for the collection and processing of financial data and information, and for orderly, systematic and documented recording.

Keywords: financial-accounting activity, financial accounting, management accounting, public entity, green energy, sustainable development

Suggested Citation:

Vasile, Emilia and Simion, Dănuţ-Octavian and Radu, Brînduşa-Mihaela and Andrei, Dalina and Croitoru, Ion, Internal Auditing & Risk Management, No. 2(62) (June 30, 2021). Internal Auditing & Risk Management , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3965651
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Shubham Edappanavar
C++ Program to implement hash tables
Available at: www.cppsecrets.com Posted: 2019
Sanjay Khadda
Hashtables chaining with doubly linked lists Posted: 2020
Per Nilsson
Introduction to hash tables Posted: 2020
Shubham Rana
C++ program for hashing with chaining Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
368
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies