Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Auditing & Risk Management, No. 3(63)

Internal Auditing & Risk Management

60 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Emilia Vasile

Universitatea Athenaeum

Dănuţ-Octavian Simion

Universitatea Athenaeum

Mariana Bălan

University of Bucharest

Brînduşa-Mihaela Radu

Universitatea Athenaeum

Radu Gheorghe

Universitatea Athenaeum

Liliana Manea

Universitatea Athenaeum

Larisa Manea

Valahia University of Targoviste

George Calota

Universitatea Athenaeum

Vlad Ovidiu Cioaca

University of Craiova, Students

Date Written: November 17, 2021

Abstract

The crisis caused by coronavirus will certainly generate a multitude of changes, forcing us, among other things, to pay more attention to what means unconventional and the new socio-economic situations produced by it. The impact of the coronavirus pandemic on world GDP growth is huge and probably the recession is the biggest since the end of World War II. Economies have contracted and have generated a wide range of problems: declining incomes, poverty, social inequalities, social polarization, social exclusion. All of these are considered as having a significant impact on the quality of life and wellbeing of an individual.


Keywords: Covid-19, employment rate, GDP, GDP per capita, gender gap, life expectancy at birth, price dispersion, relative volume of consumption, social distancing, social exclusion, social inequalities, “underground” economy, economics, economic development, globalization

Suggested Citation:

Vasile, Emilia and Simion, Dănuţ-Octavian and Bălan, Mariana and Radu, Brînduşa-Mihaela and Gheorghe, Radu and Manea, Liliana and Manea, Larisa and Calota, George and Cioaca, Vlad Ovidiu, Internal Auditing & Risk Management, No. 3(63) (November 17, 2021). Internal Auditing & Risk Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3965662
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
B Crysup , A E Woerner , J L King , B Budowle
Graph Algorithms for Mixture Interpretation
MDPI Journal, Genes , volume 12 Posted: 2019
K Erciyes
Distributed Graph Algorithms for Computer Networks Posted: 2021
P Harish , P J Narayanan
Accelerating Large Graph Algorithms on the GPU Using CUDA
International Conference on High-Performance Computing Posted: 2020
J Jansson
Special Issue on Graph Algorithms
MDPI Journal Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
461
RANK
872,402
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Economic Anthropology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies