Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Oil Shocks and Corporate Social Responsibility

Energy Economics, Vol. 107, 2022

Posted: 18 Nov 2021 Last revised: 18 Mar 2022

Mostafa Monzur Hasan

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance; Macquarie University

Jin Boon Wong

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance

Mohammed Abdullah Al Mamun

University of Newcastle (Australia) - Accounting and Finance; University of Dhaka - Department of Finance

Date Written: November 17, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the effects of oil demand and supply shocks on the corporate social responsibility (CSR) behavior of US listed companies. We find robust evidence that oil demand shocks have significant positive influences on CSR behavior, whereas oil supply shocks have significant negative impacts on firms’ CSR activities. When we decompose CSR behavior into strengths and concerns, we observe that the positive influence from oil demand shocks is driven primarily by significant reductions in areas of concern, whereas the negative influence of oil supply shocks is driven by both a reduction in areas of strength and a simultaneous increase in areas of concern. Further analysis reveals that oil demand shocks propel improvements in community, diversity and governance but have a negative impact on environmental areas. In contrast, oil supply shocks have negative influences on all aspects of CSR measures. These results persist across both oil and non-oil companies and show the substantial influence of oil shocks. Overall, our findings shed new light on the impact of segregated oil shocks on CSR behavior.

Keywords: Oil shocks, corporate social responsibilities, environment, governance, investment

JEL Classification: G34, M14, Q41

Suggested Citation:

Hasan, Mostafa Monzur and Wong, Jin Boon and Al Mamun, Mohammed Abdullah, Oil Shocks and Corporate Social Responsibility (November 17, 2021). Energy Economics, Vol. 107, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3965176
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
326
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies