Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Exploratory Study on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures: International Evidence

Corporate Narrative Reporting: Beyond the Numbers (pp.1-28). Routledge: Taylor and Francis, Forthcoming

29 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2022 Last revised: 1 Feb 2022

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Amir Hossain

University of Newcastle (Australia)

Date Written: November 19, 2021

Abstract

We examine the extent of firm-level disclosures of climate-related financial information in response to recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Specifically, we examine the level of climate-related financial disclosures after the release of the TCFD framework in 2017. We find that the level of climate-related financial disclosures increased after the issuance of the TCFD framework based on 3,887 firm-year observations from 57 countries that responded to the CDP (previously, Carbon Disclosure Project) climate change questionnaire from CDP2019 to CDP2020. The study findings offer an insight into companies’ climate-related financial disclosure practices to regulators, policymakers, and standard-setters. This insight facilitates the creation of a comprehensive disclosure policy to shape companies’ climate-related financial disclosure practices for their long-term financial stability, amidst a background in which companies worldwide are voluntarily supporting the TCFD and its recommendations.

Keywords: Climate change; Climate-related financial disclosures; TCFD, Cross-country

JEL Classification: M40; M41; Q01; Q54; Q56

Suggested Citation:

Bose, Sudipta and Hossain, Amir, An Exploratory Study on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures: International Evidence (November 19, 2021). Corporate Narrative Reporting: Beyond the Numbers (pp.1-28). Routledge: Taylor and Francis, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3966757
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
A Bernstein , M T Gustafson , R Lewis
Disaster on the horizon: The price effect of sea level rise
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 134 , issue 2 , p. 253 - 272 Posted: 2019
P Bolton , M Kacperczyk
Do investors care about carbon risk
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2020
S Bose , H Z Khan , R M Monem
Does green banking performance pay off? Evidence from a unique regulatory setting in Bangladesh
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 162 - 187 Posted: 2021
S Bose , A Saha , H Z Khan , S Islam
Non-financial disclosure and marketbased firm performance: The initiation of financial inclusion
Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 263 - 281 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
232
ABSTRACT VIEWS
906
RANK
301,058
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies