Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Growth mindset, role conflict, and financial misreporting

37 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2021

Oliver Hegers

University of Amsterdam

Date Written: November 18, 2021

Abstract

This paper investigates the relation between a business unit (BU) controller’s mindset, role conflict, and financial misreporting. ‘Mindset’ is based on implicit person theories and ranges from the deeply held belief on whether, in general, people can learn, develop and change throughout their lives (growth mindset), or whether, for example, one's abilities and character are inherited and thus unmalleable (fixed mindset). While having a growth mindset is beneficial for learning and overcoming challenges (e.g., facing competing duties), it leads to a more dynamic view on breaking rules. Using survey data from 180 BU controllers, I find that a growth mindset is negatively associated with the BU controller’s perceived level of role conflict, which is positively related to financial misreporting. However, a growth mindset is positively associated with misreporting and strengthens the relation between role conflict and misreporting. The total effect is positive and significant when role conflict is high.

Keywords: Growth mindset, implicit person theories, role conflict, duty-based violations, fiduciary duties, financial misreporting

Suggested Citation:

Hegers, Oliver, Growth mindset, role conflict, and financial misreporting (November 18, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3966604 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3966604
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,003
RANK
366,257
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies