Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Development of Information Supplement of Reporting Forms as an Effective Way of Business Management

Technology Audit and Production Reserves, 5(4(61), 6–14. doi: https://doi.org/10.15587/2706-5448.2021.240653

9 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2022

Anna Hevchuk

Vinnytsia Finance and Economics University

Liudmyla Shevchuk

Vinnytsia Educational-Research Institute of the University of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine

Date Written: October 11, 2021

Abstract

The object of research is the information support of settlement operations as an effective way of business management to minimize risks and their consequences in the agricultural sector in today's global economy. This study is due to the lack of accounting practices, namely the low informativeness of reporting forms for business management, which needs to be improved in terms of settlement operations, which should be aimed at the efficient use of resources by agricultural companies.

The analysis of the current state of reporting as information support of business management calculations is carried out. It is determined that the internal and financial reporting does not contain sufficient information on the settlement operations of business units, especially taking into account the emergence of new settlement instruments and a system of support for their implementation, including agricultural receipts. The use of agricultural receipts as a new financial calculation tool and an alternative mechanism for agribusiness lending requires informational reporting, which allows to increase the efficiency of management decisions. The study used the stages of modeling the calculation management process for users. For their implementation, the main directions for supplementing the content and components of financial statements f. No. 1 «Balance Sheet» (Statement of Financial Position) and f. No. 5 «Notes to the annual financial statements» are suggested. Management reporting is proposed, namely «Report on the status of settlements within accounts payable» and «Report on the status of settlements within accounts receivable». As well as the development of Section 4 «Risk Report» and Section 5 «Liquidity and Liabilities» of the Management Report. This provides an opportunity to generate useful, objective and relevant information adapted to the taxonomy of financial reporting (according to international financial reporting standards) in Ukraine. This information will assist company management, current and potential investors, lenders and other lenders in making effective management decisions. Compared to similar known methods, the proposed approaches allow to effectively manage the business, providing a high level of control over the state of settlements. The received information support will allow to minimize losses through the impact on risks due to the predictability of their potential consequences, which will contribute to the observance of financial independence and development of the agricultural sector.

Keywords: information support of calculations, business management, financial reporting, agricultural receipt, financial instrument of calculation

JEL Classification: M11, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hevchuk, Anna and Shevchuk, Liudmyla, Development of Information Supplement of Reporting Forms as an Effective Way of Business Management (October 11, 2021). Technology Audit and Production Reserves, 5(4(61), 6–14. doi: https://doi.org/10.15587/2706-5448.2021.240653, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3966672
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Balance Sheet» (Statement of financial position) 1041 Accounts receivable on long-term agricultural receipts; 1126 Accounts receivable under current agricultural receipts; 1156 Calculations for transactions with derivatives; 1250 Provisions and reserves; 1416 Mandatory reserve capital; 1417 Special reserve capital; 1516 Long-term bills; 1517 Settlements secured by a long-term agricultural receipt; 1618 Settlements with suppliers secured by agricultural receipts; 1693 Calculations secured by an agrarian receipt References 1. Statystychna informatsiia. Natsionalnyi bank Ukrainy Posted: 2020
I N Lozhnikov
Vazhneishie tendentsii razvitiia bukhgalterskogo ucheta. Vestnik bukhgaltera Moskovskogo regiona , volume 1 Posted: 2011
A V Hevchuk
Agrarian accounting as an alternative instrument for providing calculation operations of agricultural enterprises
International Scientific Journal «Internauka». Series: «Economic Sciences , issue 32 , p. 33 - 41 Posted: 2019
V M Zhuk
Rozvytok teorii bukhhalterskoho obliku: instytutsionalnyi aspekt. Kyiv: NNTs «IAE Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
262
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies