Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Road to Better Governance: Private Meetings and Mutual Fund Voting

64 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2022 Last revised: 17 Aug 2022

Jesse A. Ellis

North Carolina State University

William Christopher Gerken

University of Kentucky - Finance

Russell Jame

University of Kentucky - Gatton College of Business and Economics

Date Written: November 18, 2021

Abstract

We study whether private interactions between firms and mutual funds during non-deal roadshows (NDRs) influence governance behavior. Funds headquartered in the city where the firm conducts an NDR are more likely to download proxy statements. They are also more likely to vote with management on contentious proposals, and their voting is perceived by the market as value increasing, particularly when ISS issues "one-size-fits-all" recommendations. Further, high aggregate NDR ownership is associated with a smaller proportion of contentious proposals where management issues value-destroying recommendations. Collectively, the evidence is consistent with "behind-the-scenes" engagement between firms and investors resulting in improved governance outcomes.

Keywords: Mutual fund voting, private meetings, non-deal roadshows, corporate governance, ISS

Suggested Citation:

Ellis, Jesse A. and Gerken, William Christopher and Jame, Russell, On the Road to Better Governance: Private Meetings and Mutual Fund Voting (November 18, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3966579 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3966579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Marco Becht , Julian Franks , Colin Mayer , Stefano Rossi
Returns to shareholder activism: Evidence from a clinical study of the Hermes UK Focus Fund
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , p. 3093 - 3129 Posted: 2010
Patrick Bolton , Tao Li , Enrichetta Ravina , Howard Rosenthal
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 137 , p. 320 - 352 Posted: 2020
Daniel Bradley , Russell Jame , Jared Williams
Non-deal roadshows, informed trading, and analyst conflicts of interest
Journal of Finance , volume 77 , p. 263 - 315 Posted: 2022
Lawrence D Brown , Andrew C Call , Michael B Clement , Nathan Y Sharp
Managing the narrative: Investor relations officers and corporate disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , p. 58 - 79 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
293
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,488
RANK
237,535
2 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies