Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt and Taxes: The Role of Corporate Group Structures

59 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2022

Peter Brok

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Finance; Danish Finance Institute

Date Written: November 19, 2021

Abstract

I show that the corporate group structure of a company plays an important role in determining the tax benefits of debt. Losses suffered on a distressed subsidiary can be tax deductible for a parent company. Therefore, higher tax rates for the parent company mean that more of these losses are borne by the government in the parent’s country, rather than being borne by the company, allowing the company to have higher leverage. This effect exists on top of the trade-off theory effect, has two-thirds its size, and is doubled in countries where more generous deductions for subsidiary losses are allowed.

Keywords: Corporate Tax, Capital Structure, Debt Shifting, Corporate Structure

JEL Classification: G32, H25, H32, M40

Suggested Citation:

Brok, Peter and Brok, Peter, Debt and Taxes: The Role of Corporate Group Structures (November 19, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3966876 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3966876
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Joshua Angrist , Jörn-Steffen David , Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: an Empiricists Companion Posted: 2013
Richard E Baldwin , Paul Krugman
Agglomeration, integration and tax harmonisation
European Economic Review , volume 48 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2004
Steven A Bank
Historical Perspective on the Corporate Interest Deduction, chapter Chap. L, Rev , p. 18 - 29 Posted: 2014
Magda Bianco , Giovanna Nicodano
Pyramidal groups and debt
European Economic Review , volume 50 , issue 4 , p. 937 - 961 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
789
RANK
478,373
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies