Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proprietary Costs and Corporate Lobbying against Changes in Mandatory Disclosure

Management Science, Forthcoming

University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper No. 22-04

52 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2021 Last revised: 2 Mar 2022

Ying Zhou

University of Connecticut

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 20, 2021

Abstract

The mandated increase in segment disaggregation under SFAS 131 could have harmed shareholders by revealing proprietary information or benefited them by reducing agency problems. Using a sample of firms that lobbied against SFAS 131 on the grounds of competitive harm, I examine whether concerns about proprietary costs, a much-cited reason for nondisclosure, motivate firms to lobby against reporting mandates to protect firms’ competitive position or are used as an excuse to disguise managers’ self-interest. Consistent with the proprietary cost hypothesis, I find that these lobbying firms experienced a decrease in operating performance upon adoption of SFAS 131. I find similar results for non-lobbying firms whose industry associations voiced the concern of competitive harm, suggesting that associations are motivated by member concerns to lobby in accounting standard setting. The effect is more pronounced for firms that were forced to increase the number of reportable segments to a greater extent. Moreover, the reduced operating performance arises from lower sales growth and smaller profit margins. These findings shed light on lobbying motives and suggest that concerns about the competitive harm of reporting mandates were warranted.

Keywords: lobbying, disclosure regulation, proprietary costs, competitive harm, segment reporting

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Zhou, Ying, Proprietary Costs and Corporate Lobbying against Changes in Mandatory Disclosure (September 20, 2021). Management Science, Forthcoming, University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper No. 22-04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3967463 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3967463
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
H Peter , Knutson , Aimr
Association for Investment Management and Research (AIMR) (1993) Financial reporting in the 1990s and beyond: A position paper of the Association for Investment Management and Research
Special Committee on Financial Reporting Posted: 1994
V Baloria , C Marquardt , C Wiedman
A lobbying approach to evaluating the whistleblower provisions of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act of
Contemp. Account. Res , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 1305 - 1339 Posted: 2010
S Balsam , A Reitenga , J Yin
Option acceleration in response to SFAS No. 123(R)
Account. Horiz , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 23 - 45 Posted: 2008
D Bens , P Berger , S Monahan
Discretionary disclosure in financial reporting: An examination comparing internal firm data to externally reported segment data
Account. Rev , volume 86 , issue 2 , p. 417 - 449 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
309
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,432
RANK
73,151
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies