Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Experience Improve Acquisition Performance? – It’s Complicated, and That is When it Helps Most

Academy of Management Discoveries, In-Press (https://doi.org/10.5465/amd.2019.0227)

53 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2022 Last revised: 6 Apr 2022

Magdalena Langosch

University of Greenwich

Justin Tumlinson

University of Exeter Business School

Date Written: November 16, 2021

Abstract

Across social science the observation that experience in X increases performance in X is broadly established. The empirical literature on quantifying the effect of acquisition experience on the performance of future acquisitions is an anomaly - only half the studies published in top management journals report such a positive association. We meta-analyze this literature. Our study contributes three primary discoveries: (1) We robustly establish the positive relationship between acquirer experience and performance after accounting for the statistical quality of each study. Just as this result is non-obvious to academic observers of this conversation, it is also apparently non-obvious to investors—the effect size from studies using stock market reaction as a proxy for performance is indistinguishable from zero in all specifications and significantly less than from those using accounting-based measures. (2) The positive association of experience to performance strengthens in study settings is characterized by a moderator previously explored among industrial workers: Complexity. In particular, experience is more positively associated with performance in cross-border and multi-industry settings as well as those where the performance metrics reflect information more available to insiders than outsiders. (3) We document the considerable discord in this literature and highlight its probable sources and remedies.

Keywords: Merger & acquisitions, experience, performance, complexity, meta-analysis

JEL Classification: M1, M2

Suggested Citation:

Langosch, Magdalena and Tumlinson, Justin, Does Experience Improve Acquisition Performance? – It’s Complicated, and That is When it Helps Most (November 16, 2021). Academy of Management Discoveries, In-Press (https://doi.org/10.5465/amd.2019.0227), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3967878 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3967878
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
P L Ackerman
Predicting individual differences in complex skill acquisition: Dynamics of ability determinants
Journal of Applied Psychology , volume 77 , issue 5 , p. 598 - 614 Posted: 1992
H Aguinis , C A Pierce , F A Bosco , D R Dalton , C M Dalton
Debunking myths and urban legends about meta-analysis
Organizational Research Methods , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 306 - 331 Posted: 2011
H Aguinis , C A Pierce , F A Bosco , D R Dalton , C M Dalton
Debunking myths and urban legends about meta-analysis
Organizational Research Methods , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 306 - 331 Posted: 2011
H Agyei-Boapeah
Foreign acquisitions and firm performance: The moderating role of prior foreign experience
Global Finance Journal Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
934
RANK
375,436
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies