Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Response to Disclosure of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) during the COVID-19 Pandemic

13 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2021

Andi Faisal

STAI DDI SIDRAP

Amiruddin Amiruddin

Hasanuddin University

Darmawati

Hasanuddin University (UNHAS)

Date Written: November 20, 2021

Abstract

This article aims to disclose the CSR on stock price and trading and examine the profitability as the reinforcement variable between CSR disclosure on stock prices and the trading volume during the COVID-19 Pandemic. The object of the study was the LQ45 companies in the Indonesia stock exchange between 2019-2020. However, the study only involved 38 companies. We used the 2019 and 2020 data accessed from the official site of the Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) www.idx.com. The closing stock price and trading volume data were obtained from www.yahoofinance.com. Data were tested and analyzed using Partial Least Square (PLS) technique. The study found that the disclosure of CSR was positively but not significantly influential on the stock price. The disclosure of CSR is negatively but not significantly influential on the trading volume. The profitability does not strengthen the influence of CSR disclosure on stock price, and the profitability does not strengthen the negative influence of CSR disclosure on trading volume. The research findings suggest the company management continues to run CSR programs despite the unstable economic conditions due to the COVID-19 Pandemic

Keywords: CSR disclosure, Stock price, Trading volume, Profitability, COVID-19

Suggested Citation:

Faisal, Andi and Amiruddin, Amiruddin and Darmawati, Darmawati, Market Response to Disclosure of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) during the COVID-19 Pandemic (November 20, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3967866 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3967866
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Christina Astuti , Y W Dan Nugrahanti
Pengaruh Pengungkapan Corporate Social Responsibility Terhadap Reaksi Pasar
Dinamika Akuntansi, Keuangan dan Perbankan , volume 4 , issue 2 Posted: 2015
Ayem , N U Sri Dan Purwanto
Pengaruh Informasi Arus Kas, Leverage dan Pengungkapan Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) terhadap Trading volume Saham Perusahaan Perbankan di Bursa Efek Indonesia
Forum Ekonomi , issue 3
Na ' Chusaeri
Pengaruh Good Corporate Governance dan Pengungkapan Corporate Social Responsibility terhadap Stock price Perusahaan yang Terdaftar di Bursa Efek Indonesia (BEI) Periode
E-Jra , volume 8 , issue 4 Posted: 2014
L K Dewi
Pengaruh Profitabilitas, Leverage dan Likuiditas terhadap Stock price pada Perusahaan Industri Makanan dan Minuman di
Bursa Efek Indonesia. E-Jurnal Katalogis , volume 3 , issue 8 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,036
RANK
276,216
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies