Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Assessment of Internal Auditors Performance: Case of Kurdistan Banks

19 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2021

Shivan Kosrat

Near East University

Date Written: March 13, 2020

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to compare the ability of a range of reported earnings and cash flow measures to reflect firm performance. This involves evaluation of a wide range of performance measures, including earnings numbers calculated in accordance with existing accounting regulation, earnings numbers that are said to reflect core operating performance and cash flow measures, and their association with stock returns, which are used as the summary measure of firm performance. Additionally, we investigate how the relevance of these alternative performance measures is sensitive to the underlying economic characteristics of the firm.

Keywords: Internal Auditing, Auditor, Performance, Kurdistan

Suggested Citation:

Kosrat, Shivan, The Assessment of Internal Auditors Performance: Case of Kurdistan Banks (March 13, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3968263 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3968263
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
305
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies