Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customer Satisfaction and Internal Control

Journal of Management Accounting Research

55 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2023 Last revised: 18 Aug 2023

Ting Chen

University of Massachusetts Boston - College of Management

Xiaotao Kelvin Liu

DMSB - Accounting

Chi Wan

San Diego State University

Yakun Wang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen - School of Management and Economics; Shenzhen Finance Institute

Date Written: January 12, 2023

Abstract

We investigate whether customer satisfaction, measured by product ratings on Amazon.com, is associated with ineffective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control weakness will likely corrupt the information environment, compromise coordination, and divert corporate resources from improving customer satisfaction to addressing control deficiencies. Using a large sample of product rating data from Amazon.com, we find robust and consistent evidence that customer satisfaction is negatively associated with internal control weaknesses. Furthermore, the negative association is more pronounced for environment-level (versus other) internal control weaknesses, non-core (versus core) products, and more (versus less) operationally complex firms. Overall, our findings provide the direct evidence that ineffective internal control compromises customer satisfaction.

Keywords: customer satisfaction, internal control weakness, product ratings, Amazon.com, operating complexity

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Ting and Liu, Xiaotao Kelvin and Wan, Chi and Wang, Yakun, Customer Satisfaction and Internal Control (January 12, 2023). Journal of Management Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3969354 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3969354
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
J L Altamuro , J V Gray , H Zhang
Corporate Integrity Culture and Compliance: A Study of the Pharmaceutical Industry
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 428 - 458 Posted: 2022
E W Anderson , M W Sullivan
The Antecedents and Consequences of Customer Satisfaction for Firms
Marketing Science , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 125 - 143 Posted: 1993
E W Anderson , C Fornell
Foundations of the American Customer Satisfaction Index. Total Quality Management , volume 11 , issue 7 , p. 869 - 882 Posted: 2000
E W Anderson , C Fornell , S K Mazvancheryl
Customer Satisfaction and Shareholder Value
Journal of Marketing , volume 68 , p. 172 - 185 Posted: 2004-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
362
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,998
RANK
188,511
2 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies