Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Uneven Regulatory Playing Field and Bank Transparency Abroad

Journal of International Business Studies

HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2021-041

55 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2021 Last revised: 5 Jan 2022

Tai-Yuan CHEN

Department of Accounting, HKUST Business School, Hong Kong University of Science & Technology

Yi-Chun Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Mingyi Hung

University of British Columbia (UBC); Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 22, 2021

Abstract

Motivated by international business research on institutional arbitrage and headquarters-subsidiary relationships, we examine the effect of regulatory distance on multinational banks’ (MNBs) reporting transparency abroad. Using an international sample of foreign subsidiary banks in 46 host countries from 47 home countries, we find that bank transparency declines when the home countries have tighter activity restrictions than the host countries. We bolster the causal inference using difference-in-differences designs that take advantage of banking reforms and cross-border bank acquisitions. We also find that the result is more pronounced when parent banks have lower capital ratios or when host countries have weaker supervisory power, suggesting that parent banks use opaque reporting to conceal risk-taking abroad. Further analysis finds that less transparent subsidiaries are more likely to fail during financial crises. Overall, our findings suggest that regulatory distance creates negative externalities for bank transparency and stability abroad.

Keywords: Transparency Within and Among MNEs and National States, Agency Theory, Multinational Corporations (MNCs) and Enterprises (MNEs), Headquarters-Subsidiary Roles and Relations

JEL Classification: G20, G21, G28, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Tai-Yuan and Chen, Yi-Chun and Hung, Mingyi, Uneven Regulatory Playing Field and Bank Transparency Abroad (November 22, 2021). Journal of International Business Studies, HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2021-041, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3969083
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A Barnea , R Haugen , L Senbet
Agency problems and financial contracting Posted: 1985
J R Barth , G Caprio , R Levine
Bank regulation and supervision in 180 countries from 1999-2011
Journal of Financial Economic Policy , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 219 Posted: 2013
U Baumann , E Nier
Disclosure, volatility, and transparency: An empirical investigation into the value of bank disclosure
Federal Reserve Bank of New York Economic Policy Review , volume 10 , p. 31 - 45 Posted: 2004
A Beatty , S Liao
Financial accounting in the banking industry: A review of the empirical literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 339 - 383 Posted: 2014
Load more
1 Citations
Allen N. Berger , Omrane Guedhami , Destan Kirimhan , Xinming Li , Daxuan Zhao
Universal Banking Powers and Liquidity Creation
41 Pages · Posted: 5 Jan 2022 · Last revised: 16 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 421
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
641
RANK
505,214
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies