Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Standards and Gains Trading

80 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2021 Last revised: 9 Mar 2024

Evan Eastman

Florida State University

Kyeonghee Kim

Florida State University

Marc A. Ragin

University of Georgia; University of Georgia - Department of Insurance, Legal Studies, Real Estate

Date Written: August 29, 2024

Abstract

The U.S. life insurance industry has a unique accounting rule: when a bond is sold, the proceeds
must be amortized over its remaining maturity. Managers who wish to “gains trade” (strategically sell investments to manage earnings) must engage in extraordinary sales activity to overcome this limitation. Using quantile regression, we find that firms in the highest quantiles of realized capital gains tend to have larger operating losses. This behavior is driven by private life insurers who report to stakeholders under statutory accounting principles, where this accounting rule applies. These insurers appear to gains trade with closer-to-maturity bonds, indicating that the amortization requirement plays a role in the bond sales decision. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to examine gains trading under this rule; we contribute to the literature by providing evidence of gains trading when accounting standards dilute the effectiveness of such behaviors.

Keywords: Insurance Accounting, Financial Institutions, Earnings Management, Interest Maintenance Reserves

JEL Classification: G10, G22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Eastman, Evan and Kim, Kyeonghee and Ragin, Marc A. and Ragin, Marc A., Accounting Standards and Gains Trading (August 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3969335 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3969335
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
S Balestra , B Eugster , H Liebert
Peers with special needs: Effects and policies
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 104 , p. 602 - 618 Posted: 2022
M E Barth , J Gomez-Biscarri , R Kasznik , G López-Espinosa
Bank earnings and regulatory capital management using available for sale securities
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 22 , p. 1761 - 1792 Posted: 2017
E Bartov
The timing of asset sales and earnings manipulation
The Accounting Review , volume 68 , p. 840 - 855 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,309
RANK
337,747
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies