Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On Restructuring after an International Merger and Acquisition

15 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2021

Xiaoxuan Ji

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Sajal Lahiri

Southern Illinois University Carbondale - Department of Economics

Abstract

We analyze restructuring after an M&A: a multinational firm (MNC) has three options: it can keep one plant in one of the two countries or keep both plants.The MNC would prefer to keep both plants, and this is compatible with the preferences of the two governments. We collect data on 751 cross-border M&A by Chinese MNCs in 67 countries and find support for our result.

Keywords: Merger and Acquisition, Restructuring, International Oligopoly, Trade, Transportation costs.

Suggested Citation:

Ji, Xiaoxuan and Lahiri, Sajal, On Restructuring after an International Merger and Acquisition. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3969629 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3969629
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
A Agrawal , J F Jaffe , G N Mandelker
The postmerger performance of acquiring firms: a reexamination of an anomaly
The Journal of Finance , volume 47 , p. 1605 - 1621 Posted: 1992
K R Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
G Andrade , M Mitchell , E Stafford
New evidence and perspectives on mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
M T Brouwer
Horizontal mergers and efficiencies; theory and anti trust practice
European Journal of Law and Economics , volume 26 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
441
RANK
872,402
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies