Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do firms put their money where their mouth is? Sociopolitical claims and corporate political activity

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

74 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2022 Last revised: 31 Oct 2023

Susanne Preuss

University of Amsterdam

Malte Max

VU University Amsterdam - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 22, 2021

Abstract

Firms increasingly respond to stakeholder demands by making public claims about their stances on polarizing issues, but at the same time their political activities may contradict their claims. We analyze the extent to which firms’ sociopolitical claims and their political action committee contributions align. We develop a dictionary of claims related to diversity and environmental protection based on word combinations in firm communications and link firms’ political contributions to candidate approval ratings provided by third-party advocacy groups. While firms generally donate mostly to lower-rated politicians (i.e., those with lower environmental and human rights ratings), firms making more sociopolitical claims donate relatively more to higher-rated politicians. The latter is consistent with political alignment but also has further limit: While firms with more claims donate more to higher-rated politicians, they donate no less to lower-rated politicians. Moreover, government subsidies, politicians’ power, and community pressure for diversity and environmental disclosures reduce political alignment.

Keywords: Campaign contributions, corporate values, DEI, disclosures, ESG, political activity

JEL Classification: M14, D72

Suggested Citation:

Preuss, Susanne and Max, Malte, Do firms put their money where their mouth is? Sociopolitical claims and corporate political activity (November 22, 2021). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3969292 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3969292
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
103 References
W Aerts , D Cormier
Media legitimacy and corporate environmental communication
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2009
L A Aguilar
Shining a Light on Expenditures of Shareholder Money Posted: 2012-02-14
P Akey
Valuing changes in political networks: Evidence from campaign contributions to close congressional elections
Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 11 , p. 3188 - 3223 Posted: 2015
S Anastasiadis
Toward a view of citizenship and lobbying: Corporate engagement in the political process
Business and Society , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 260 - 299 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
450
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,324
RANK
114,831
103 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies