Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overconfident CEOs, corporate social responsibility, and tax avoidance: Evidence from China

Forthcoming, Journal of International Accounting, Auditing, and Taxation

51 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2021 Last revised: 7 Apr 2024

Panagiotis Karavitis

University of Glasgow - Adam Smith Business School

Pantelis Kazakis

University of Glasgow

Tianyue Xu

University of Glasgow - Adam Smith Business School

Date Written: April 04, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the influence of CEO overconfidence on the relationship between corporate social responsibility (CSR) and tax avoidance. Prior studies on the relationship between CSR and tax avoidance find mixed results. Using granular data of listed Chinese companies, we find that firms with higher CSR scores systematically exhibit higher tax avoidance. Importantly, we find that this relationship is moderated in firms with overconfident CEOs. We contend that overconfident CEOs are less likely to strategically use CSR as a risk-management tool. Additional analysis shows that this moderating effect comes mainly from non-state-owned enterprises. Our findings stand up to a battery of sensitivity tests, including the use of CSR subdimensions. In summary, we provide consistent evidence about the moderating effect of CEO overconfidence on the relationship between CSR and tax avoidance. These results partially reconcile the mixed findings of prior empirical literature.

Keywords: Overconfident CEOs, corporate social responsibility, and tax avoidance: Evidence from China Corporate social responsibility, Tax avoidance, CEO overconfidence. JEL codes: G30, H26

JEL Classification: G30, H26

Suggested Citation:

Karavitis, Panagiotis and Kazakis, Pantelis and Xu, Tianyue, Overconfident CEOs, corporate social responsibility, and tax avoidance: Evidence from China (April 04, 2024). Forthcoming, Journal of International Accounting, Auditing, and Taxation, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3969369 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3969369
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
T Abdelfattah , A Aboud
Tax avoidance, corporate governance, and corporate social responsibility: The case of the Egyptian capital market
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 38 Posted: 2020
M Al-Shammari , A Rasheed , H A Al-Shammari
CEO narcissism and corporate social responsibility: Does CEO narcissism affect CSR focus
Journal of Business Research , volume 104 , p. 106 - 117 Posted: 2019
G Bhandari , R Deaves
The demographics of overconfidence
The Journal of Behavioral Finance , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 11 Posted: 2006
M Bradshaw , G Liao , M S Ma
Agency costs and tax planning when the government is a major shareholder
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 2-3 , p. 255 - 277 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
494
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,357
RANK
131,571
2 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies