Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Chinese Shareholders Exercise Their Rights to Vote? A Preliminary Empirical Study

Chao Xi, Sirui Han, Ning Cao, and Haochuan Gong, "How Do Chinese Shareholders Exercise Their Rights to Vote? A Preliminary Empirical Study" in Guo Wenying (ed.) The Investors [Touzi Zhe] (2021) Volume 13, pp. 17 – 37 (in Chinese).

The Chinese University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2021-64

30 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2021

Chao Xi

The Chinese University of Hong Kong

Sirui Han

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST)

Ning Cao

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Faculty of Law

Haochuan Gong

Jilin University (JLU)

Date Written: January 31, 2020

Abstract

We conduct a preliminary empirical study on the shareholders’ exercise of their rights in China’s A-share stock markets. Our focus is on shareholders’ attendance of the general meeting and their exercise of voting rights. We empirically show that the ownership form, concentration of shareholding, firm’s profitability, and the firm size have a statistically significant impact on investors’ attendance and voting behaviour. Our case studies further demonstrate that the majority of the minority rule and the presence of long-term investors both incentivise public investors’ exercise of rights. We also critically examine the role of the China Securities Investor Services Centre, a PRC public investor protection body.

The Article is published in Guo Wenying (ed.) The Investors [Touzi Zhe] (2021) Volume 13, pp. 17 – 37 (in Chinese).

Keywords: Investor protection, Shareholder rights, China's stock market, Shareholder general meeting, Shareholder litigation, Securities law

JEL Classification: K22, K41, K42

Suggested Citation:

Xi, Chao and Han, Sirui and Cao, Ning and Gong, Haochuan, How Do Chinese Shareholders Exercise Their Rights to Vote? A Preliminary Empirical Study (January 31, 2020). Chao Xi, Sirui Han, Ning Cao, and Haochuan Gong, "How Do Chinese Shareholders Exercise Their Rights to Vote? A Preliminary Empirical Study" in Guo Wenying (ed.) The Investors [Touzi Zhe] (2021) Volume 13, pp. 17 – 37 (in Chinese)., The Chinese University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2021-64, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3969094
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
684
RANK
649,230
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Chinese University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies