Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit Characteristics and Managerial Discretion in Financial Reporting

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 22(4) : 571-601 (2021)

31 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2022

Dereck Barr-Pulliam

University of Louisville

Date Written: November 24, 2021

Abstract

This paper replicates and extends Barr-Pulliam’s (2019) study that examines whether the perceived objectivity of the internal audit function (IAF) moderates the effect of internal audit assurance that is more frequent — namely continuous auditing — on the perceived likelihood of earnings management. Rather than the functional separation of the IAF’s dual role, this replication manipulates whether the IAF is used as a management training ground. The results of this replication are consistent with those reported in the original study. That is, the results show an interactive effect whereby the perceived likelihood of earnings management is lower when the IAF is not a management training ground (more objective), and the IAF uses continuous relative to periodic auditing. The results suggest that reported results are robust and extend to an alternative measure of internal auditors’ perceived objectivity.

Keywords: continuous auditing, internal audit, management training ground, replication

JEL Classification: G34, M12, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Barr-Pulliam, Dereck, Internal Audit Characteristics and Managerial Discretion in Financial Reporting (November 24, 2021). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 22(4) : 571-601 (2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3970939
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
U L Anderson , M H Christ , K M Johnstone , L E Rittenberg
A post-SOX examination of factors associated with the size of internal audit functions
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , p. 167 - 191 Posted: 2012
S Baiman
Some ideas for further research in managerial accounting
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 119 - 121
Agency research in managerial accounting: A second look
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 15 , p. 341 - 371 Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
757
RANK
568,026
8 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies