Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Spillover Effects of Expected Credit Losses Model Implementations

56 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2021 Last revised: 23 Mar 2023

Yupeng Lin

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN); Business School, National University of Singapore

Wanrong Xu

School of Business, Southern University of Science and Technology, China

Rachel Xi Zhang

NUS Business School

Date Written: March 2023

Abstract

Banks’ mandatory switch from an incurred credit loss model (IL) to an expected credit losses model (EL) in certain jurisdictions can affect loan pricing and securitization in foreign markets. Comparing U.S. banks with IFRS subsidiaries to U.S. domestic banks, we find that the former charge higher loan spreads after starting to shift to EL, especially for those with greater exposure to IFRS countries. This pricing effect varies predictably with loan demand elasticity. Second, banks are more likely to shift institutional facilities off the balance sheet through securitization while increasing the spread on pro-rata facilities, consistent with a substitutional effect. Both the pricing effect and substitutional effect induce more risk-taking behaviors by dependent borrowers of U.S. banks with IFRS subsidiaries. Our results shed light on the unintended consequences of EL implementation.

Keywords: Spillover Effect; Expected Credit Losses; Loan Spread; Securitization; Risk-taking

JEL Classification: G21; G28; H23

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Yupeng and Xu, Wanrong and Zhang, Rachel Xi, Spillover Effects of Expected Credit Losses Model Implementations (March 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3971507 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3971507
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
S Agarwal , S Chomsisengphet , N Mahoney , J Stroebel
Do banks pass through credit expansions to consumers who want to borrow?
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 133 , issue 1 , p. 129 - 190 Posted: 2018
S M Ahsan
Taxation in a two-period temporal model of consumption and portfolio allocation
Journal of Public Economics , volume 5 , issue 3-4 , p. 337 - 352 Posted: 1976
A K Ally , Y Meng , R Chakraborty , P W Dobson , J S Seaton , J Holmes , . . Meier , P S
Alcohol tax pass-through across the product and price range: do retailers treat cheap alcohol differently?
Addiction , volume 109 , issue 12 , p. 1994 - 2002 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
332
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,863
RANK
207,451
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies