Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance of Cyber Security: State of Play

22 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2021 Last revised: 18 Jan 2022

Vincent McGrath

Macquarie Business School

Elizabeth A. Sheedy

Macquarie University Department of Applied Finance; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Fan Yu

Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: January 17, 2022

Abstract

With cyber-losses mounting worldwide, the need for effective cybersecurity governance has never been greater. The objective of this paper is to identify what is currently known about this important topic and what remains to be further investigated. We examine both the academic and industry literature and draw upon several recent cases involving malicious external attackers and loss of customers’ financial information, as these characteristics are associated with more significant loss of shareholder wealth.

Section 1: Case Studies
We discuss the following case studies: Equifax, Marriott, and two Canadian financial institutions (Bank of Montreal and Simplii, a subsidiary of CIBC). In the cases affecting a large number of customers (Equifax and Marriott), indirect costs dwarf the direct costs associated with the attack. Direct costs include investigating the attack, upgrading security after the attack, fines, and customer remediation. Indirect costs (sometimes called reputational costs) occur when customers and other stakeholders take their business elsewhere or demand a change in the terms of doing business.

Section 2: What and Why of Cyber-Governance
This section considers cyber governance in the broader context of risk governance. Drawing on existing research on risk governance, we identify key structural elements: effective board of directors with cybersecurity skills and an appropriate committee to focus on cybersecurity; specialist senior executive expertise with access to the board, such as a Chief Information Security Officer (CISO); risk, compliance, and assurance functions that are adequately resourced with cybersecurity expertise; executive accountability for cybersecurity, with appropriate rewards and sanctions; and disclosure of cybersecurity risks and risk management practices.

Section 3: Disclosure of Cyber-Risk
Evidence suggests that disclosure expands following a damaging cyber-attack. There is, however, no clear evidence to suggest that expanded disclosure of cyber-risk is associated either with greater likelihood of attack or with superior cyber resilience. Of our case study firms, the one with the most expansive cyber disclosure, Equifax, suffered the most severe cyber-attack. New research that uses machine-learning to analyse the text of cyber-disclosures and quarterly earnings calls offers some promise in this regard.

Section 4: Board Structures/Committees and Cyber Risk
The effectiveness of governance structures in relation to cyber-risk outcomes is not yet well understood. Very few papers have been published in this area and those that exist are quite recent. Kamiya et al. (2021) find that the existence of a board risk committee reduces the likelihood of an attack, although Akey et al. (2021) find no association. There is, however, good evidence to suggest that cyber risk governance is reformed following a cyber-attack. Risk governance is also transformed after cyber-attack in a peer firm.

Section 5: Executive Compensation and Cyber Risk
Analysis of the four cases reveals remarkably little executive accountability following even severe cyber-attacks. Lack of serious consequences for senior executives is a problem because it may encourage lack of diligence in cyber risk management processes. We also identify opportunities to better design executive compensation practices to promote better cyber risk management.

Section 6: Cybersecurity Governance Scores.
ESG ratings play an increasingly important role in the financial system. Within the broad ‘governance’ category, a number of providers now offer a cyber-security governance score. We conduct a preliminary investigation of the scoring system provided by S&P Global, considering large banks in Australia, Canada, the UK, and the US. We find that while cybersecurity governance scores are correlated with past cyber-attacks, they have no value for predicting future cyber-attacks. This raises questions about the methodologies used by ESG ratings providers that warrant further investigation.


Keywords: governance, cyber security, disclosure, executive compensation, Equifax

JEL Classification: M12, M15, L20

Suggested Citation:

McGrath, Vincent and Sheedy, Elizabeth A. and Yu, Fan, Governance of Cyber Security: State of Play (January 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3971177 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3971177
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
343
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,727
RANK
200,166
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies