Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asset Pricing When Social Preference Meets Lottery Preference: Evidence from China

37 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2021

Chaonan Lin

Xiamen University

Kuan-Cheng Ko

National Chi Nan University - College of Management

Rong Ran

Chongqing University

Nien-Tzu Yang

National United University

Abstract

There is substantial evidence indicating that stocks with lottery-like payoffs have lower returns. Unlike existing studies that focus on the role of investors’ behavior in accelerating the lottery premium, we propose that investors’ social preference toward corporate social responsibility (CSR) could alleviate the underperformance of lottery-like stocks. Using a sample consisting of all Chinese listed A-share stocks, we show that the negative relation between lottery preference and stock returns exists only among stocks without CSR engagement or with poor CSR performance. We further show that better CSR performance and higher institutional ownership mitigate the overpricing of lottery-like stocks. Our research contributes to the CSR literature by showing that behaving in socially responsible ways could avoid stock prices being overpriced when the stock exhibits lottery-like payoffs.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Social preference, Lottery preference, Stock Returns

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Chaonan and Ko, Kuan-Cheng and Ran, Rong and Yang, Nien-Tzu, Asset Pricing When Social Preference Meets Lottery Preference: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3971680 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3971680
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , p. 4451 - 4949 Posted: 2019
D Amaya , P Christoffersen , K Jacobs , A Vasquez
Does realized skewness predict the cross-section of equity returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 118 , p. 135 - 167 Posted: 2015
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
L An , H Wang , J Wang , J Yu
Lottery-related anomalies: The role of referencedependent preferences
Management Science , volume 66 , p. 473 - 501 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
754
RANK
564,093
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies