Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of Natural Resources Accounting Framework in India

Journal of Commerce & Accounting Research 10 (4) 2021, 56-64

9 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2021

Abhishek N

Institute of Management and Commerce, Srinivas University; University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; NIE FIRST GRADE COLLEGE; Sri Nataraja Residential First Grade College for Women

M. L. Ashok

University of Mysore

R K Tailor

Manipal University Jaipur, Jaipur

Date Written: November 28, 2021

Abstract

The social and economic development of a country is dependent on the efficient use, conservation, and protection of natural resources. Today, we are in a globalised era, and India is one of the fastest-growing economies across the globe, so there is more utilisation of natural resources. It is a matter of sustainability of natural resources in the country; therefore, accountability of utilisation of natural resources by both private and government enterprises is to be efficiently done. For this purpose, there is a need to have an accounting framework, which is possible through Natural Resources Accounting (NRA). The present paper attempted to evaluate the current status of NRA from the Indian perspective, valuation approaches used in NRS, and to analyse the perception of academicians in the stream of accounting and economics. To analyse the data, descriptive statistics and Levene’s independent t-test are used. It can be concluded that the academicians of both the streams are aware of NRA practices and its importance on various aspects of the economy of a particular country, and the globe at large. Further, it is found that there is some level of awareness, and perceived impact of NRA is observed by both accounting and economics teachers in the Indian context

Keywords: Natural Resource Accounting, Natural Resource Valuation Methods, GASAB

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M47

Suggested Citation:

N, Abhishek and Ashok, M. L. and Tailor, R K, An Analysis of Natural Resources Accounting Framework in India (November 28, 2021). Journal of Commerce & Accounting Research 10 (4) 2021, 56-64, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3973071
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
M L Ashok , N Abhishek , M S Divyashree
Accounting for corporate social responsibility in India: An analysis of selected companies in India
Indian Journal of Accounting , volume 51 , issue 2 , p. 19 - 26 Posted: 2019
R Bardy , M Massaro
Shifting the paradigm of return on investment: Towards a composite index to measure overall corporate performance
Business Systems Review , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 46 Posted: 2013
B E Bassey , P A Uklala , T E Bassey , C I Adie , I Ibor
Natural resource accounting, auditing and reporting gaps: The Nigerian experience
PalArch's Journal of Archaeology of Egypt/Egyptology , volume 17 , issue 7 , p. 6523 - 6536 Posted: 2020
M Common
Natural resource accounting and sustainability. The Economic and Labour Relations Review , volume 2 , p. 89 - 121 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
671
RANK
453,964
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies