Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The impact of debt financing on financial performance of mining firms in Harare, Zimbabwe

9 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2022

Anthony Tapiwa Mazikana

University of Zimbabwe

Date Written: November 28, 2021

Abstract

According to Manson, McCartney & Sherer (2017) it is necessary to adopt debt financing if the organization is financial distressed. Despite embarking on debt financing to boost their financial performance, mining firms such Dallaglio investments are faced with challenges which are centred on losses and misuse of funds. Insyiranui et al (2013) argue that debt financing programmes help organizations to improve the financial performance. However, Muziri (2015) argued that debt financing has no tangible benefits to organizations as some organizations misuse funds. Lev et al. (2010) argue that studies on the relationship between debt financing and organizational performance does not offer sound conclusion about financial performance results and it was established that some companies who embark on debt financing does not always enjoy profits or financial gains. It is against this background that this research study wishes to gain abysmal understandings into the impact of debt financing on financial performance of mining firms in Zimbabwe.

Keywords: debt financing, financial performance, financial distress, loss

Suggested Citation:

Mazikana, Anthony Tapiwa, The impact of debt financing on financial performance of mining firms in Harare, Zimbabwe (November 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3973025 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3973025
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
I Abai
A Generalized Econometric Model and Test of a Signaling Hypothesis with Two Discreet Signals
Journal of Finance , volume 43 , p. 413 - 429 Posted: 1988
E Altaman
A Further Investigation of Bankruptcy Cost Question
Journal of Finance , p. 1060 - 1089 Posted: 1984
C V Atanasova , N Wilson
Disequilibrium in the U.K. Corporate Loan Market
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 28 , p. 595 - 614 Posted: 2004
Basel Committee
Risk in the Banking Industry. Published by the Basel Committee
Basel Committee Posted: 1999
Load more
1 Citations
Wilbert Manyanga , James Kanyepe , Lovemore Chikazhe , Tendai Manyanga
The effect of debt financing on the financial performance of SMEs in Zimbabwe
Cogent Social Sciences , volume 9 , issue 2 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
400
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,312
RANK
168,604
1 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies