Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Resolution of Trade Policy Uncertainty Affect Shareholder Returns in Mergers and Acquisitions?

49 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2021

Praveen Kumar

University of Houston - Department of Finance

George Zhe Tian

The University of Tampa - John H. Sykes College of Business

Vijay Yerramilli

University of Houston, C. T. Bauer College of Business

Date Written: November 30, 2021

Abstract

We use a change in US trade policy, which eliminated potential tariff increases on Chinese imports, to examine the effect of resolution of trade policy uncertainty on merger and acquisition (M&A) activity and shareholder value of acquiring and target firms. After this policy change, industries with greater resolution of tariff uncertainty experience higher within-industry and cross-industry M&A activity, and acquiring firms in these industries experience higher announcement returns, but there is no corresponding effect on target announcement returns. Acquirer shareholder wealth effects are stronger for R&D-intensive acquirers; in transactions involving publicly-traded targets, especially for less profitable and high-leverage targets; and for cross-industry acquisitions, especially those in which the target is in a less competitive and less fluid product market than the acquirer. The effects on acquirer shareholder wealth indicate that elimination of trade policy uncertainty and increase in import competition raise the bargaining power of acquirers relative to targets.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Trade Policy Uncertainty, Shareholder Wealth, Product Market Competition

JEL Classification: G34, P33

Suggested Citation:

Kumar, Praveen and Tian, George Zhe and Yerramilli, Vijay, Does Resolution of Trade Policy Uncertainty Affect Shareholder Returns in Mergers and Acquisitions? (November 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3974127 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3974127
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
G A Alessandria , S Y Khan , A Khederlarian
Taking stock of trade policy uncertainty: Evidence from China's pre-WTO accession Posted: 2019
G Andrade , M Mitchell , E Stafford
New evidence and perspectives on mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
H Aslan , P Kumar
Globalization and entrepreneurial entry and exit: Evidence from US households
Journal of Monetary Economics Posted: 2021
D H Autor , D Dorn , G H Hanson
The China syndrome: Local labor market effects of import competition in the United States
American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 6 , p. 2121 - 2168 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,067
RANK
392,891
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies