Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
LGBT-Supportive Corporate Policies, Risk Aversion and Mitigation, and Economic Policy Uncertainty

36 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2022

Chaiyuth Padungsaksawasdi

Thammasat Business School

Sirimon Treepongkaruna

The University of Western Australia; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Date Written: November 30, 2021

Abstract

Purpose: We investigate the effect of uncertain times on LGBT-supportive corporate policies, exploiting a novel text-based measure of economic policy uncertainty (EPU) recently constructed by Baker et al. (2016). LGBT-supportive policies have attracted a great deal of attention in the media lately. There is also a rapidly growing area of the literature that addresses LGBT-supportive policies specifically.

Design/Methodology: We execute a regression analysis and several other robustness checks including propensity score matching and an instrumental-variable analysis to mitigate endogeneity.

Findings: Our results show that companies significantly raise their investments in LGBT-supportive policies in times of greater uncertainty, reinforcing the risk mitigation view where LGBT-supportive policies create moral capital with an insurance-like effect that mitigates adverse consequences during uncertain times. The effect of EPU on LGBT-supportive policies is above and beyond its effect on corporate social responsibility (CSR) in general.

Originality/Value: Our study is the first to explore the effect of uncertain times on LGBT-supportive corporate policies. We contribute to a crucial area of the literature that examines how firms respond to economic policy uncertainty. In addition, we enrich the literature on LGBT-friendly policies by showing that EPU is one of the significant determinants of LGBT-friendly policies.


Keywords: LGBT-supportive, LGBT-friendly, economic policy uncertainty, corporate social responsibility, risk mitigation, uncertainty

JEL Classification: G32, M14

Suggested Citation:

Padungsaksawasdi, Chaiyuth and Treepongkaruna, Sirimon and Jiraporn, Pornsit, LGBT-Supportive Corporate Policies, Risk Aversion and Mitigation, and Economic Policy Uncertainty (November 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3974947 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3974947
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
M Anteby , C Anderson
The shifting landscape of LGBT organizational research
Research in Organization Behavior , volume 34 , p. 3 - 25 Posted: 2014
M Azzimonti
Partisan conflict and private investment
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 93 , p. 114 - 131 Posted: 2018
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis , K Kost
The unprecedented stock market reaction to Covid-19 Posted: 2019
Load more
1 Citations
Savva Shanaev , Arina Skorochodova , Mikhail Vasenin
LGBT CEOs and Stock Returns: Diagnosing Rainbow Ceilings and Cliffs
38 Pages · Posted: 19 May 2022 · Downloads: 339
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
737
RANK
627,127
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies