Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creditor Control Rights and Executive Bonus Plans

78 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2022 Last revised: 8 Jan 2024

Chris Armstrong

Stanford Graduate School of Business

John D. Kepler

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Chongho Kim

Seoul National University

David Tsui

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Date Written: August 04, 2024

Abstract

We study the extent to which creditors shape the executive bonus plans of their financially distressed borrowers. Financial distress can exacerbate agency conflicts between creditors and borrowers as concerns with underinvestment become more acute due to managerial myopia and debt overhang. Consequently, we expect creditors to exert their influence to ensure that these managers' incentive-compensation plans encourage longer-term investments and directly reward outcomes that benefit creditors without exposing managers to unnecessary risk. We argue that bonus plans are an especially important way to provide these incentives because their flexibility allows creditors to more precisely target specific investment objectives (vis-à-vis e.g., equity). We find that borrowers' bonus plans tend to have longer horizons and more convex payouts following covenant violations, especially for borrowers in poor financial health and bonus plans can be a particularly effective way to address distress-related agency conflicts. Our collective evidence suggests that creditors protect their interests by exercising their control rights to shape the incentive-compensation plans of their borrowers.

Keywords: JEL classification: G34, J3, M12 bonus plans, control rights, creditors, executive compensation, managerial incentives

JEL Classification: G34, J3, M12

Suggested Citation:

Armstrong, Chris S. and Kepler, John and Kim, Chongho and Tsui, David, Creditor Control Rights and Executive Bonus Plans (August 04, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3975781 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3975781
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
B Akins , J Bitting , D De Angelis , M Gaulin
The salience of creditors' interests and CEO compensation Posted: 2019
D Anantharaman , V Fang , G Gong
Inside debt and the design of corporate debt contracts
Management Science , volume 60 , issue 5 , p. 1260 - 1280 Posted: 2014
C Armstrong , J Core , W Guay
Why do CEOs hold so much equity Posted: 2015
C Armstrong , J Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality redux: The evolution of empirical methods in accounting research and the growth of quasi-experiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 74 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
405
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,098
RANK
166,169
1 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies