Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Cash Flow Risk on Corporate Failures, and the Moderating Role of Earnings Management and Abnormal Compensation

International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2021 Last revised: 28 Jun 2023

Xia Li

Aston University - Aston Business School

Jairaj Gupta

University of York

Ziwen Bu

University of Birmingham - Birmingham Business School

Chacko Kannothra

CSU Dominguez Hills

Date Written: December 1, 2021

Abstract

In this study, we find that United States firms’ average cash flow risk (CFR) shows a significantly increasing trend over the past four decades or so. This does not portend well considering the significance of cash flows in maintaining a firm’s financial health and going concern status. The CFR also increases dramatically for firms approaching financial distress or bankruptcy, suggesting its important role in predicting a firm’s failure. Empirically, we find that CFR has a strong positive effect on a firm’s financial distress likelihood. We also find that the association between CFR and financial distress is negatively moderated in firms with high earnings management and abnormal compensation. The results suggest that managers in firms with high CFR are more likely to use heuristics in form of earnings management. Thus, supporting the upper echelons theory related to managers under performance pressure. Meanwhile, consistent with the notion in the agency theory that financial incentives serve as effective monitoring mechanisms, compensation packages can incentivize better risk management practices and decrease the likelihood of a firm’s failure. Our findings are also robust to alternative definitions of a firm’s failure: financial constraints, presumed debt covenant violation and legal bankruptcy filings.

Keywords: Financial distress; Cash flow risk; Bankruptcy; Earnings management; Abnormal compensation

JEL Classification: M12, M41; G32; G33

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xia and Gupta, Jairaj and Bu, Ziwen and Kannothra, Chacko, Effect of Cash Flow Risk on Corporate Failures, and the Moderating Role of Earnings Management and Abnormal Compensation (December 1, 2021). International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3975454 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3975454
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
S Ahmad , S Akbar , A Halari , S Z Shah
Organizational non-compliance with principles-based governance provisions and corporate risk-taking
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 78 Posted: 2021
W Alissa
Boards' response to shareholders' dissatisfaction: The case of shareholders' say on pay in the UK
European Accounting Review , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 727 - 752 Posted: 2015
S Alnahedh , S Bhagat , I Obreja
Employment, corporate investment, and cashflow risk
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 54 , issue 4 , p. 1855 - 1898 Posted: 2019
T G Arun , Y E Almahrog , Z A Aribi
Female directors and earnings management: Evidence from UK companies
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 39 , p. 137 - 146 Posted: 2015
Load more
2 Citations
Surendranath Rakesh Jory , Thanh Ngo , Jurica Susnjara
The Effect of Firm-Specific Exposure to Regulatory Intensity on Earnings Management
CORFIN-D-24-00460 · 56 Pages · Posted: 22 May 2024 · Downloads: 100
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Surendranath Rakesh Jory , Thanh Ngo , Jurica Susnjara
The Effect of Firm-Specific Exposure to Regulatory Intensity on Earnings Management
YBARE-D-24-00473 · 57 Pages · Posted: 12 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 59
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,280
RANK
276,216
2 Citations
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies