Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does CEO risk-aversion affect carbon emission?

Journal of Business Ethics (Forthcoming)

Posted: 6 Dec 2021

Ashrafee T Hossain

Memorial University of Newfoundland (MUN) - Faculty of Business Administration

Samir Saadi

University of Ottawa - Telfer School of Management

Abu S. Amin

Central Michigan University - Department of Finance and Law

Date Written: December 2, 2021

Abstract

Does CEO tolerance to risk affect a firm’s long-run sustainability? Using CEO insider debt holding, we show that CEO’s risk aversion encourages immoral yet rational decisions of emitting more greenhouse gas (GHG) thereby adversely affecting the firm’s long-run sustainability. Our result is robust to several endogeneity tests including a quasi-natural experiment. Our finding also suggest that to mitigate potential adverse reactions from stakeholders, carbon emitting firms with risk-averse CEOs tend to spend more on CSR activities. Much of the heterogeneity in our results are attributed to companies with weaker governance, powerful CEOs, and operating in a competitive product market. Overall, contrary to conventional wisdom, CEO preference towards risk can often lead to unethical outcomes (environmental degradation) and especially appears to be a key determinant for firm-level carbon emissions.

Keywords: CEO inside debt; executive compensation; carbon risk; GHG emission; CSR;

JEL Classification: M12, M14, Q51, G34

Suggested Citation:

Hossain, Ashrafee T and Saadi, Samir and Amin, Abu S., Does CEO risk-aversion affect carbon emission? (December 2, 2021). Journal of Business Ethics (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3975874
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
680
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies