Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
C and S Corporation Banks: Did Trump's Tax Reform Lead to Differential Effects?

SAFE Working Paper No. 328

35 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2021

Hoang Ha Nguyen Thi

Goethe University Frankfurt

Alfons J. Weichenrieder

Goethe University Frankfurt - Department of Applied Econometrics and International Economic Policy; Vienna University of Economics and Business; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Date Written: November 30, 2021

Abstract

The US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) led to a drastic reduction in the corporate tax and improved the treatment of C corporations compared to S corporations. We study the differential effect of the TCJA on these types of corporations using key economic variables of US banks, such as the number of employees, average salaries and benefits, profit/loss before taxes, and net income. Our analysis suggests that the TCJA increased the net-of-tax profits of C corporation banks compared to S corporations and, to a lesser extent, their pre-tax profits. At the same time, the reform triggered no significantly differential effect on the employment and average wages.

Keywords: Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, corporate taxation, S corporations, C corporations, banks

JEL Classification: H2, G2

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen Thi, Hoang Ha and Weichenrieder, Alfons J., C and S Corporation Banks: Did Trump's Tax Reform Lead to Differential Effects? (November 30, 2021). SAFE Working Paper No. 328, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3976165 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3976165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
29765 Table 4: Descriptive statistics for C and S corporation banks , p. 2010 - 2019
IRS Issues Final Rules on Pass-Through Deduction for S-Corp Banks
References ABA Banking Journal Posted: 2019-04
D Altig , A Auerbach , P Higgins , D Koehler , L Kotlikoff , E Terry , V Ye
Did the 2017 Tax Reform Discriminate Against Blue-state Voters?
National Tax Journal , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 1087 - 1108 Posted: 2020
A Auerbach
Measuring the Effects of Corporate Tax Cuts
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 97 - 120 Posted: 2018
Load more
1 Citations
Shi Qi , Sepideh Raei
Legal forms and regulatory responses: a comparative analysis of S and C corporation community banks
Economics of Governance Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
259
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,152
RANK
269,796
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies