Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determining Public Ownership in Malawian Banking Industry

Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 1 Special Issue 2. Dec 2020

18 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2022

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: December 1, 2020

Abstract

Financial regulators take serious approach on matters regarding shareholding of banks to protect the banking industry from illicit enterprises and few greedy investors who might cause massive harm to the economy and depositors. Public ownership in Malawian banks is capped at ten percent (10%) of the issued share capital despite absence of the reasons for such plugging. This study strived to find meaning of the public and level of compliance with the ten percent (10%) ceiling on shareholding. The results however indicate that the term public is blur and brings confusion and not good for policy enforcement and therefore regulators must take urgent deliberate policies to redress the current scenario.

Keywords: Public; Ownership; Bank; Industry; Malawi

JEL Classification: G21, G34, K21, L25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Determining Public Ownership in Malawian Banking Industry (December 1, 2020). Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 1 Special Issue 2. Dec 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3976648
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Malawi FDH Bank Plc (2020) Initial Public Offer Results Announcement Posted: 2010-07-28
Brian Malawi Kampanje , Phiri
Role of Institutional Shareholders in Malawi -Case Study for TNM Limited
SSRN Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal , volume 4 Posted: 2010
Supervision of Financial Institutions Annual Report Registrar of Financial Institutions
Registrar of Financial Institutions Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
391
RANK
914,805
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies