Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Control Controversies in Malawian Banking Industry Acquisitions

Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 2 Special Issue 1. Aug 2021

20 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2022

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: August 1, 2021

Abstract

Business Combination in form of acquisition brings a lot of enthusiasm on the shareholders and the economy. These are however complex transactions governed by statutory provisions, regulator’s guidelines and professional input. This study explored business combination in the Malawian Banking Sector with particular reference to acquisition of Malawi Savings Bank and Indebank Limited and noted that some decisions were made based on Section 6.4 of the Banking Act without further reference to the Financial Services Act which is the superior Act with dire consequences. This study recommends amendment of the Banking Act and Financial Services Act in view of the consequences of enacting Companies Act 2013.

Keywords: Control; Gaps; Bank; Malawi; Acquisition.

JEL Classification: G21, G34, K21, L25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Control Controversies in Malawian Banking Industry Acquisitions (August 1, 2021). Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 2 Special Issue 1. Aug 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3976556
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
A Acts ; Malawi Bryman , E Bell
Companies Act 2013, Malawi; and Financial Service Act
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Services (Licensing and Regulatory Requirements for Holding Companies) Posted: 1984
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Disclosure of related party transactions in Malawian Banking Industry
SSRN Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal , volume 4 , issue 23 Posted: 2012-03-21
Johnny Kasalika
Consolidation: a new single control model
Business Combinations: CA similarities and differences -IFRS and UK GAAP (FRS 102) Posted: 2011-05
Tom Sangala
CFTC approves MSB, FDH merger
Times Online Posted: 2016-02-25
Load more
2 Citations
Brian Phiri Kampanje
Determining the Controlling Interest in the Public Limited Company With Partially Issued Share Capital - Case Study of Malawi Agricultural and Industrial Investment Corporation
Mergers, Acquisitions &amp; Disposals Journal Vol. 4. No. 1 Mar 2023 · 13 Pages · Posted: 18 Jul 2024 · Downloads: 33
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Brian Phiri Kampanje
Missing Acquisition Transactions In The Consolidated Statement Of Financial Position When Negative Goodwill Was Recognised In The Group Statement Of Comprehensive Income – Case Study of Malawian Bank
11 Pages · Posted: 3 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 30
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
528
RANK
635,835
2 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies