Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Sustainability Reports Contain Financially Material Information?

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB

51 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2021 Last revised: 24 Mar 2025

Suzanne (Burzillo) Haley

San Jose State University - Lucas College of Business

Matthew Shaffer

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Richard G. Sloan

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Date Written: February 27, 2025

Abstract

Recent years have witnessed significant growth in corporate sustainability reporting. Yet existing research provides mixed evidence on the information content of these reports for investors. We examine the stock market reaction to the announcement of corporate sustainability reports incorporating SASB metrics that are intended to provide financially material information to investors. Using standard measures of information content, we cannot find compelling evidence that these reports provide a significant amount of new information to investors. Further analysis of a subset of common metrics indicates that they are either financially immaterial or preempted by traditional financial disclosures. Finally, we show that most firms target their sustainability reports at a broad set of sustainability-oriented stakeholders rather than a narrow set of financially-oriented investors.

Keywords: Sustainability, Disclosure, Materiality

JEL Classification: G1, M4

Suggested Citation:

(Burzillo) Haley, Suzanne and Shaffer, Matthew and Sloan, Richard G., Do Sustainability Reports Contain Financially Material Information? (February 27, 2025). USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3976550 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3976550
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
M E Barth , S F Cahan , L Chen , E R Venter
The economic consequences associated with integrated report quality: Capital market and real effects , volume 62 , p. 43 - 64 Posted: 2017
W H Beaver
The information content of annual earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 67 - 92 Posted: 1968
W H Beaver , M F Mcnichols , Z Z Wang
The information content of earnings announcements: new insights from intertemporal and cross-sectional behavior
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 135 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,441
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,563
RANK
30,802
4 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies