Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consideration Considerations in Acquisition Transactions in the Privatisation of Indebank and Malawi Savings Limited

Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 1 Special Issue 2. Dec 2020

22 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2022

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: December 1, 2020

Abstract

Consideration is the sum paid by an acquirer in exchange for shareholding in an investee and is a product of offer and acceptance principle which reflects the wishes of the buyer and seller. The exact number of shares to be purchased is supposed to be unequivocal and what must be paid should be clearly spelt out by the disinvesting party. The results of this study have however shown that the bidding process adopted by Public Private Partnership Commission had some weaknesses as it did not specify the exact shareholding percentage to be acquired by the bidder and the reserved price for the shares so that what acquirers finally purchased were materially different from what was stipulated in the bid documents. This was further exacerbated by failure of acquirers to demonstrate that they had recapitalised the investees to comply with Basel II Requirements since the acquirees were subsequently absorbed into the acquirers and ceased to exist contrary to the bidding conditions that the privatised entities would continue to operate as standalone entities. Recapitalisation obligation was supposed to result in recognition of liability in the books of acquirers because of deferred consideration but this was not done. Worse still, the actual proceeds from the privatisation of Indebank and Malawi Savings Bank were grossly misstated and whereabouts not known.

Keywords: Consideration; Bank; Malawi; Privatisation

JEL Classification: G21, G34, K21, L25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Consideration Considerations in Acquisition Transactions in the Privatisation of Indebank and Malawi Savings Limited (December 1, 2020). Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 1 Special Issue 2. Dec 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3976642
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Businessmalawi , Com
K16.2bn bank proceeds still idle
Indebank sale awaits government approval Posted: 2015-05
Rex Chikoko
MSB, indebank proceeds idle
Nation Online Posted: 2015-11-21
Austin Chiumia , Arnold Palamuleni
Interest Rate Pass-Through in Malawi: Implications for Effectiveness of Monetary Policy
African Economic Research Consortium Posted: 2020
Deloitte (2020) A Roadmap to Impairments and Disposals of Long-Lived Assets and Discontinued Operations
Load more
2 Citations
Brian Phiri Kampanje
Intersection of IAS 24 Related Parties Transactions and IFRS 10 – Consolidated Financial Statements: Malawian Case Study
Mergers Acquisitions and Disposals Journal, Vol. 3, No. 1 · 15 Pages · Posted: 3 Mar 2023 · Downloads: 109
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Brian Phiri Kampanje
Dichotomising Disposal Of Subsidiary In View Of High Court Annulment Of Acquisition -Case Study Of People's Trading Centre Limited
22 Pages · Posted: 3 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 18
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
376
2 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies