Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Banks Undertaking Underwriting Schemes during Initial Public Offer or Rights on the Malawi Stock Exchange between 2008 and 2020

Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 1 Special Issue 2. Dec 2020

10 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2022

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: December 1, 2020

Abstract

Underwriters in public offerings provide invaluable service of guaranteeing that the issuer of shares would generate the desired cash to fulfil its strategic objectives. Underwriters bear enormous risks whenever there is undersubscription as they have to transfer cash to the issuer and figure it out how to dispose off the shares. Malawian Banks keep depositors’ funds which are usually short-term and might be exposed to liquidity risk arising out of the undersubscription and subject them to heavy penalties for the violation of the liquidity directives. Banks might also suffer price risks as well as reputation risks. It is therefore important for regulators to explore probable regulations for sanitising the underwriting sector to protect the depositors.

Keywords: Underwriting; Stock; Bank; Malawi; Exchange

JEL Classification: G21, G34, K21, L25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Banks Undertaking Underwriting Schemes during Initial Public Offer or Rights on the Malawi Stock Exchange between 2008 and 2020 (December 1, 2020). Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 1 Special Issue 2. Dec 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3976639
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Brian Phiri Kampanje
Saved by the Corporate Bonds - review of Substantial Exposure of the Parent-subsidiary Group as Lead-advisor, Sponsoring Broker and Underwriter in the Rights Issue in Malawi
Mergers, Acquisitions &amp; Disposals Journal Vol. 4. No. 2 Dec 2023 · 19 Pages · Posted: 15 Jul 2024 · Downloads: 29
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
331
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies