Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigating the Level and Extent of Malawian Banks Investing in and Holding Publicly Traded Equity Shares

Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 1 Special Issue 2. Dec 2020

10 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2022

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: December 1, 2020

Abstract

Banks have a precarious position in the capital markets as they have overabundance of liquidity to purchase significant volumes of shares which can create artificial demand for particular shares resulting in massive capital gains. Again, they can delay plunge in share price in equity instruments which they hold directly or through their related parties when they act as portfolio managers, transfer secretaries or investment advisors. To counter this enormous power vested in banks, the Reserve Bank of Malawi issued out Capital Adequacy Directive prohibiting banks from owning publicly traded shares of other banks and limits the monetary value of publicly traded shares to ten (10) percent of the core capital. This study has found out that one bank owned shares in other banks and another had substantial shareholding in other companies exceeding its limit of ten percent of core capital. The recommendations from this study are that Malawi Stock Exchange should be disclosing the names of the firms purchasing or disposing off 5 percent or more publicly traded shares of any firm. Banks should also be limited in their dealings on the stock exchange as they should not own shares and act as transfer secretaries, stockbrokers, portfolio managers and investment advisors.

Keywords: Publicly; Traded; Bank; Malawi

JEL Classification: G21, G34, K21, L25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Investigating the Level and Extent of Malawian Banks Investing in and Holding Publicly Traded Equity Shares (December 1, 2020). Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 1 Special Issue 2. Dec 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3976651
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Malawi Stock , Exchange
Annual Market Performance Review Malawi Stock Exchange (2019) Annual Market Performance Review Malawi Stock Exchange Posted: 2018
Supervision of Financial Institutions Annual Report Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
284
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies