Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Review of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries of Malawi Listed Companies

Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 1. No. 1. Apr 2020

18 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2022

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: April 1, 2020

Abstract

Group of companies usually have significant wealth and influence in any given economy and one of the requirements to monitor their activities is through requirement to produce group accounts as dictated by statutory provisions such as the Companies Act and relevant accounting standards. This is a case study of one of the listed companies on the Malawi Stock Exchange which had unconsolidated subsidiaries between 2009 and 2019 as they were wrongly classified as associates and subjected to wrong accounting standard. This resulted in material misstatement of the financial statements. It was also later discovered of double counting as the investees were treated as investments under IFRS 9 but at the same time accounted for using equity method as well. The study recommends that directors should take active role to reduce misstatements.

Keywords: Unconsolidated; Subsidiaries; Listed; Malawi

JEL Classification: G12, G21, G28, L33

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Review of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries of Malawi Listed Companies (April 1, 2020). Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 1. No. 1. Apr 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3977668
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
SSRN Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal , volume 5 Posted: 2013
Pricewaterhousecoopers
Business Combinations and Non-Controlling Interests, Global Guide Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
462
3 Citations
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies