Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Anchoring Effect of Pre-Meeting Vote Disclosures: Evidence from the National Pension Service

46 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2022

Jinhyeok Ra

Korea University Business School (KUBS)

Sunmin Kim

KOREA INSTITUTE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY

Hyoung Goo Kang

Hanyang University

Woochan Kim

Korea University Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Asian Institute of Corporate Governance (AICG)

Date Written: December 5, 2021

Abstract

This study investigates whether pre-meeting vote disclosures by large asset owners can amplify the influence of their votes at shareholders' meetings. We utilize the newly adopted 2019 rule that mandates Korea’s National Pension Service (NPS) to disclose voting decisions before the shareholders’ meeting. Firms subject to this pre-meeting disclosure must meet either of two conditions: the NPS holds at least 10% of the firm’s voting shares or the firm’s weight in the NPS domestic equity portfolio is at least 1%. Employing a regression discontinuity design and difference-in-differences analyses, we find that the NPS pre-meeting disclosure causes other institutional investors to increase their conformity to the NPS votes. We further find that this effect mainly originates from the resolutions that the NPS votes against management; this result is pronounced among the institutional investors who are more likely to face problems related to conflicts of interest.

Keywords: shareholder voting, pre-meeting disclosure, conflicts of interest, asset owner, National Pension Service

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38, D72

Suggested Citation:

Ra, Jinhyeok and Kim, Sunmin and Kang, Hyoung Goo and Kim, Woochan, Anchoring Effect of Pre-Meeting Vote Disclosures: Evidence from the National Pension Service (December 5, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3977980 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3977980
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction Terms in Logit and Probit Models
Economic Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
R Ashraf , N Jayaraman , H F Ryan
Do Pension-related Business Ties Influence Mutual Fund Proxy Voting? Evidence from Shareholder Proposals on Executive Compensation
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2012
M Becht , A Polo , S Rossi
Does Mandatory Shareholder Voting Prevent Bad Acquisitions?
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 29 , issue 11 , p. 3035 - 3067 Posted: 2016
J E Bethel , S L Gillan
The Impact of the Institutional and Regulatory Environment on Shareholder Voting
Financial Management , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 29 - 54 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,402
RANK
524,565
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies