Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Disposals of Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Venture in Malawian Listed Companies

Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 1. No. 1. Apr 2020

18 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2022

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: April 1, 2020

Abstract

Loss of control in subsidiaries as well as significant influence in associates can be voluntary or otherwise but what is certain is that there are prescribed accounting procedures which must be adhered to as dictated by relevant International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) to ensure that financial statements are not materially misstated. This study explored disposal of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates by Malawian listed companies and banks. The results indicate probable serious shortfalls in the accounting for disposal of subsidiaries and associates in Malawi and it is recommended that the accounting aspects regarding this matter must be incorporated in the Directors’ Report to give it more prominence and subjected to intense scrutiny. External auditors must also take active role to obtain reasonable assurances that reporting firms do what is just and right in this matter.

Keywords: Disposal; Accounting; Subsidiary; Joint; Venture

JEL Classification: G12, G21, G28, L33

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Accounting for Disposals of Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Venture in Malawian Listed Companies (April 1, 2020). Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 1. No. 1. Apr 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3977658
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Felix Aveh , Kwame , Dadson Awunyo-Vitor
Firmspecific determinants of stock prices in an emerging capital market: Evidence from Ghana Stock Exchange
Cogent Economics & Finance , volume 5 , issue 1 Posted: 2017
A Baker , C Haslam , A Leaver , R Murphy , L Seabrooke , S Stausholm , D Wigan
Against Hollow Firms: Repurposing the Corporation for a More Resilient Economy Posted: 2020
Tereza Gluzová
Consolidation exemptions under IFRS
Procedia Economics and Finance , volume 25 , p. 32 - 40 Posted: 2015
J R Graham , M L Lemmon , J G Wolf
Does Corporate Diversification Destroy Value?
Journal of Finance , volume 57 , p. 695 - 721 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
463
RANK
713,531
2 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies