Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economic Consequences of Ceasing Option Backdating

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2021 Last revised: 7 Mar 2022

Szu-fan Chen

National Taiwan University

Date Written: December 4, 2021

Abstract

The 2002 enactment of Section 403(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX403) made option backdating less viable for firms. I examine whether the loss of the benefits obtained from option backdating is associated with more fraudulent activities after the enactment of SOX403. For firms suspected of engaging in option backdating (suspect firms), I find an increase in fraudulent financial reporting after the enactment of SOX403. The increase in fraud is more prominent for suspect firms more affected by SOX403. I also find an increase in insider trading profits from fraud for individuals who formerly benefited from option backdating. My study highlights an unintended consequence of SOX403. The opportunistic timing of executive option compensation appears to be replaced with fraudulent activities that are likely more value-destroying.

Keywords: securities regulation, financial reporting fraud, option backdating, insider trading

JEL Classification: G18, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Szu-fan, The Economic Consequences of Ceasing Option Backdating (December 4, 2021). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3978262 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3978262
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
C S Armstrong , D F Larcker , G Ormazabal , D J Taylor
The relation between equity incentives and misreporting: The role of risk-taking incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 2 Posted: 2013
P S Atkins
Speech: Remarks Before the International Corporate Governance Network 11th Annual Conference Posted: 2006
L Bebchuk , J Fried
Pay without Performance: The Unfulfilled Promise of Executive Compensation Posted: 2004
L A Bebchuk , Y Grinstein , U R S Peyer
Lucky CEOs and Lucky Directors
The Journal of Finance , volume 65 , issue 6 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,004
RANK
469,965
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies