Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Overview of Corporate Sustainability Reporting Legislation in the European Union

Accounting in Europe, Forthcoming

77 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2022 Last revised: 6 Feb 2024

Katrin Hummel

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Dominik Jobst

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: February 1, 2024

Abstract

In recent years, sustainability disclosure has increasingly become mandatory in many countries. The European Union (EU) is at the forefront of this change by adopting legislation that governs disclosure of (i) companies’ sustainability aspects (Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive), (ii) the sustainability of economic activities (Taxonomy Regulation), (iii) the sustainability of financial products (Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation), and (iv) the environmental, social and governance risks of credit institutions (Pillar 3 disclosures). In addition, international standard setting for sustainability disclosure is at a rapid pace, and both the International Sustainability Standards Board and the European Commission have published reporting standards. Overall, these reporting mandates and standards are interconnected and rapidly progressing, which makes it increasingly difficult to keep track. The aim of this article is to outline and compare the EU’s sustainability disclosure legislation and major standard-setting initiatives and thus identify important implications for both researchers and practitioners.

Keywords: Sustainability Reporting Legislation, European Union, Non-Financial Reporting Directive, Taxonomy Regulation, Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive

Suggested Citation:

Hummel, Katrin and Jobst, Dominik, An Overview of Corporate Sustainability Reporting Legislation in the European Union (February 1, 2024). Accounting in Europe, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3978478 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3978478
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
C A Adams , F Mueller
Academics and policymakers at odds: the case of the IFRS Foundation Trustees' consultation paper on sustainability reporting
Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal , volume 13 , issue 6 , p. 1310 - 1333 Posted: 2022
C A Adams
EU V IFRS: Fundamentally different approaches to sustainability reporting
Accounting Resources Centre Posted: 2021
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing Firms to Talk: Financial Disclosure Regulation and Externalities
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
D Baboukardos , S Gaia , P Lassou , T Soobaroyen
The multiverse of nonfinancial reporting regulation
Accounting Forum , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 147 - 165 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,653
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,817
RANK
7,076
2 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies