Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
C-Suite Incentive Conflict and Firm Efficiency

39 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2021

Kienpin Tee

James Cook University - James Cook University; affiliation not provided to SSRN

Feng Han

Capital University of Economics and Business

Ghulame Rubbaniy

University of the West of England

Date Written: December 6, 2021

Abstract

The main purpose of this study is to provide empirical support to a long-debated theory in behavioral and organizational management literature, which relates the incentive conflict of firm’s executives the firm’s efficiency. Using panel data regressions and a novel measure of C-suit incentive conflict, our results show that incentive conflict improves firm efficiency and thus support the constructive impact of C-suite conflict on firm efficiency. We find that the positive impact of incentive conflict on firm efficiency is weakened when the CEO is more powerful. Our findings provide support to agency theory from the perspective of behavioral and organizational management literature by documenting that a more diverse board of directors reinforces the positive relationship between incentive conflict and firm efficiency. Our study has at least two important policy implications for the corporations. First, the positive impact of incentive conflict on firm efficiency may suggest the employers to design executives’ compensation packages where the vega differences between CEOs and non-CEO executives are above the median can be a benchmark. Second, corporations may design policies to minimize CEO’s power and improve the positive impact of incentive conflict on firm efficiency by increasing presence of minorities in the board of directors.

Keywords: Incentive conflict; Firm efficiency; Data envelopment analysis; Stochastic frontier analysis; CEO characteristics; Board of directors. JEL classifications: M12, M14, M52

JEL Classification: M12, M14, M52

Suggested Citation:

Tee, Kienpin and Han, Feng and Rubbaniy, Ghulame, C-Suite Incentive Conflict and Firm Efficiency (December 6, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3979566 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3979566
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A E Abele , J Volmer , D Spurk
Career Stagnation: Underlying Dilemmas and Solutions in Contemporary Work Environments
Work and Quality of Life. International Handbooks of Quality-of-Life Posted: 2012
V V Acharya , Y Amihud , L Litov
Creditor rights and corporate risk-taking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 150 - 166 Posted: 2011
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Executive compensation, strategic competition, and relative performance evaluation: Theory and evidence
The Journal of Finance , volume 54 , issue 6 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Performance incentives within firms: The effect of managerial responsibility
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 4 , p. 1613 - 1650 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
680
RANK
631,426
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies